This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the
information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com


r^xV**
-->.•
%
,
MAJ CEN ARTHUR S~ CLAIR
THE ST. CLAIR PAPEES.
THE
LIFE AND PUBLIC SERVICES
ARTHUR ST. CLAIR
SOLDIER OF THE REVOLUTIONARY WAR; PRESIDENT OF
THE CONTINENTAL CONGRESS; AND GOVERNOR
OF THE NORTH-WESTERN TERRITORY
Correspondence and other Papers
ARRANGED AND ANNOTATED
WILLIAM HENRY SMITH
Vol. I
CINCINNATI
ROBERT CLARKE & CO
1882
i I
f\wn
Copyrighted, 1SS1,
By ROBERT CLARKE & CO,
PREFACE.
It is evident, from the popular interest manifested in the
centennial celebrations of the past six years, that the prin
ciples involved in the Revolutionary War are no less dear
to the American heart to-day than when Lord Cormvallis
surrendered at Yorkt'own, October 19, 1781, and that what
ever contributes to a more thorough understanding of that
remarkable contest ; whatever tends to bring into clearer
view the labors and the sacrifices of the principal charac
ters—Washington and his faithful associates—will receive
a hearty welcome. The first of these volumes presents
new material covering the period of the war and the en
suing years of political uncertainty down to the time when
Arthur St. Clair retired from the President's chair of the
Continental Congress. In some respects, it is cumulative
of the facts contained in the Writings of Washington as
to the privations and sufferings, the patriotism and cour
age of the Continental soldiers; and on that account has a
certain value. But the reader will find new evidence bear
ing on disputed points and a new presentation of facts
heretofore misrepresented, notably concerning the enter
prises on the Delaware in December, 1776, and the evacua
tion of Ticonderoga and Mount Independence in the fol
lowing year, whereby it is hoped something more than the
shadow of justice is rendered at last to the memory of one
of Washington's most loyal friends. The correspondence
.betweeen St. Clair and President Reed, and between St.
Clair and Washington, is especially interesting, as it pre
sents in bold and striking colors the difficulties that conCm)
iv Preface.
stantly beset the commander-in-chief, arising from short
enlistments, want of a treasury, the jealousies of the States,
and inefficiency of the central authority.
That a people living in communities with distinct gov
ernments, without experience in military affairs, without a
common treasury, without arms other than those provided
for the protection of their own homes, without organized
means of defense, should have the temerity to contest the
field with a powerful kingdom, having unlimited financial
resources and trained soldiery, was remarkable. But more
remarkable was the exhibition of self-control and wisdom,
after the demoralization of an eight years' war, which es
tablished a national government, acceptable to the thirteen
distinct communities—founded a republican government
upon the rock of constitutional law. The same wisdom,
contemplating an extension of the blessings of free govern
ment, even before the Union was sealed, formed and es
tablished an Ordinance for the government of the vast
territory lying north-west of the river Ohio, containing
every principle and privilege essential to the happiness
and greatness of a people. From the presidency of the
body that created this famous Ordinance, Arthur St. Clair
passed to the control of the government under it.
Of the actual work done by Governor St. Clair in laying
the foundations of government under the Ordinance of
1787, little is known. The information that has come
down to us has been fragmentary and unofficial. The sec
ond volume of this work is an attempt to supply this de
fect. The large amount of wholly new material employed
in it has been obtained from various sources—from the
papers left by General St. Clair and preserved by his fam
ily, from the archives of the State and "War Departments,
and from private sources.
It will be expected that reference should be made here
Preface. v
to the noble part taken by the State of Ohio in securing
and preserving from destruction the valuable papers left
by St. Clair. When, in 1869, the "Western Reserve Histor
ical Society announced that these papers were in the pos
session of the heirs of Colonel Robert Graham, deceased,
residing in Kansas, an unsuccessful effort was made in the
General Assembly to secure an appropriation for their
purchase. Subsequently, upon the recommendation of
that society, Governor Hayes appointed Mr. Joseph Per
kins, of Cleveland, to represent the State in a negotiation
for the purchase. Mr. Perkins, unable to make a journey
to Kansas to examine the papers, appointed Mr. Alfred T.
Goodman, secretary of the society, his agent for that pur
pose. Mr. Goodman made a careful examination. He
reported that the papers were in bad condition, " many of
the important manuscripts being mice eaten, and rendered
almost worthless from the ravages of time." He fixed the
value at two thousand dollars, whereas they were sched
uled iu the list of the personal property of Colonel Gra
ham at five thousand. Judge R. St. Clair Graham, ad
ministrator, subsequently produced the papers at Cincin
nati for further examination by the members of the Ohio
Historical and Philosophical Society. "While they were
lying here, other descendants of St. Clair were induced to
go before Judge Storer, of the Superior Court of Cincin
nati, and apply for an injunction against Graham, to re
strain the latter from selling the manuscripts. This was
done to set at rest the title. The court appointed the
sheriff receiver. The final decision was in favor of the
heirs-at-law represented by Mr. Graham. The question
of title having been settled, the Ohio Historical and Phi
losophical Society sent a memorial to the General Assem
bly, praying for the purchase and preservation of the pa
pers. Governor Hayes recommended the measure in a
vi Preface.
special message, and with characteristic public spirit the
Legislature, during the session of 1870, made the necessary
appropriation. The papers were carefully arranged by
Miss Mary C. Harbaugh, assistant librarian. The task
was a difficult one, as many of the papers were mutilated,
many without beginning or end, and many more without
address or signature.
Since then, there has been great uncertainty as to the
preservation of the autograph letters. The Commissioners
of the Ohio State Library recommended their publication,
in order that "they be not left a prey to be carried off
piece-meal by seekers after literary curiosities," and, in his
last annual message, Governor Foster gave the recom
mendation his approval. The General Assembly, wisely
and with commendable unanimity, directed the publica
tion of the papers, in a joint resolution adopted on the
21st day of February last. The action of the present
Commissioners, under the authority above recited, is
shown by the following transcript from their records :
The Board of Library Commissioners, having considered tlio resolu
tion of the General Assembly of February 21, 1881, directing the pub
lication of the St. Clair Papers, and the method for carrying out the
instructions of the said resolution, it is hereby
Resolved, That the Librarian be autherized to receive propositions from publishers whe arc prepared to execute the work vi ithin the time prescribed, and In u credita ble manner, and to arrange witli someone familiar with the papers and the subjects
embraced therein, to prepare them for publication.
After consultation with various publishers, and careful consideration
of the whole subject, it was deemed advisable to employ the well known
house of Robert Clarke it Co. to publish the work, and to place the
papers in the hands of Hon Wm. Henry Smith, formerly Secretary
of State of Ohio, who, it was known, had spent years in studying the
career of Arthur St Clair, and in collecting material covering that in
teresting period of American history.
Board of Li-C CHARLES FOSTER, Governor,
brary Com-\ CHARLES TOWXSEND, Secretary of Stale,
mitsioncrs. (.JOS. II. OEIGER, Librarian.
An examination of the papers showed that not only
Preface. vii
•were they badly defaced and fragmentary, but that the
letters in the handwriting of St. Clair were original drafts,
which frequently differed from the perfected letters as
transmitted to his correspondents. To correct these, it
became necessary to have recourse to my own private col
lection, and to originals in possession of manuscript col
lectors in different parts of the country. "While occasion
ally meeting with disappointments, I have succeeded be
yond my most sanguine expectations, though only through
infinite labor.
To present to the reader a truthful picture of the theater
to which Arthur St. Clair was invited by the last Conti
nental Congress, and include in the work a comprehensive
history of the Xorth-western Territory under him, it be
came necessary to draw liberally from a collection of
Harmar papers, originally intended for use in another
work, and from a compilation of the official records of
the Executive of the North-western Territory from 1795
to the close of 1802, also designed for an independent
work. The records in possession of the State come down
no later than the year 1705.
I am indebted to General James T. Worthington, of
Chillicothe, for the privilege of using the manuscripts of
his distinguished father, Governor Worthi'ngton, to ex
plain more fully than the papers of St. Clair do the politi
cal contest from 1800 to 1803, which ended in the removal
of the Governor and the admission of the Eastern District
into the Union. Thus both sides are presented to the
reader. The political methods by which the downfall of
the friend of Washington and the leader of the Federalist
party in the "West was accomplished, and a new Republi
can State secured for the support of Mr. Jefferson in his
ambitious political schemes, are here laid before the reader
for the first time.
viii Preface.
It only remains for me to acknowledge my indebtedness
to Colonel Charles "Whittlesey, Mr. John T. Perry, Mr.
C. W. Butterfield, and Mr. Robert Clarke, for valuable
suggestions; and to Mr. Joseph G. Siebeneck (of Pitts
burgh), Mr. B. H. Hinds (of the Treasury Department),
Mr. E. T. Hall (of the State Executive Department), and
Colonel D. C. Cox (when a Government official at "Wash
ington), for aid in procuring copies of correspondence.
The importance of this service can only be fully appre
ciated by those who have attempted to obtain access to
the treasures of a hundred years ago.
December 8, 1881.
CONTENTS.
LIFE AND PUBLIC SERVICES.
CHAPTER I.
1734-1775—Birth and Education—Services in the French War—Mar
riage—Lord Dunmore's War and the Boundary Troubles between
Pennsylvania and Virginia 1
CHAPTER II.
1775-1777—Meeting at Hannastown to Protest against Aggressions
ok Great Britain—Treaty with Indians at Pittsburgh—St. Clair
Suggests Expedition to Detroit—Appointed Coi.onel of Second
Pennsylvania—Covers Retreat from Canada—Siceness and De
moralization of Army on Border of Laee Cnamplain—St. Clair
Ordered to Reinforce Washington—Desperate Straits of the
Army—Suffering in the Winter—Battles of Trenton and Prince
ton—St. Clair Suggests an Ingenious Movement by which the Army
Eludes the British—Brilliant Results 12
CHAPTER III.
1777—St. Clair, Promoted to be Major-General, Ordered to an Im
portant Command in the Northern Department—Evacuation of
Forts Ticonderoga and Independence—It Results in the Sur
render of Burgotne and the Triumph of the American Cause 45
CHAPTER IV.
1777-1783—St. Clair joins General Washington, and becomes a Mem
ber of his Military Family—Participates in the Battle of Brandtwine—Important
Services—Shares in the Sufferings of Valley
Forge—St. Clair faithful to Washington in the Midst of Cabals
—Troubles in the Pennsylvania Line, and Labors of President Reed
and St. Clair to adjust them—Assault on Stony Point—Post of
(ix)
x . Contents.
Honor held by St. Clair's Division, in 1780—A Commissioner to ar
range a Cartel for Exchange ok Prisoners—Treason of Arnold and
Death of Andre—St. Clair sent to command West Point—Offered
THE COMMAND OF CoRPS OK LlGHT INFANTRY—REVOLT OF THE PENNSYL
VANIA Line—Recruiting for the Final Struggle—Marches to Sup
port of Greene in South Carolina—Close of the War—Mutiny of
Pennsylvania Recruits—Alarm in Philadelphia—St. Clair sent
for—Congress adjourns to Princeton 97
CHAPTER V.
1783-1787—Return to Civil Life—Loss of Fortune—Engages in Busi
ness—A Member of the Board of Censors—Elected a Delegate to
Congress from Philadelphia County—Chosen President of the
last Continental Congress—Great Gift to Freedom—History of
the Ordinance of 1787—St. Clair Elected Governor of the North
western Territory 116
CHAPTER VI.
The North-western Territory-.—Arrival oe Governor St. Clair at Fort
IIarmar—Interesting Ceremonies—Address to the Settlers at Cam
pus Martius —Auspicious Beginning oe the Wore ok Establishing
Civil Government—Claim of the Indians to the Territory, and its
Importance to Them—Adopting Laws—Difference with the Judges
—Establishment oe the First Court in the North-west—Social
Life on the Museingum—Louisa St. Clair—Treaty at Fort IIar
mar—Influence of Joseph Brant and bis British Allies—Confed
eracy of Indian Nations—Arrival at Fort Washington—Cincinnati
Named, and why—Organization ok Counties and Local Governments
in the Illinois and Wabash Countries—Temptation to Return to
Political Life in Pennsylvania—Proposition to Maee St. Clair
Governor of that State 137
CHAPTER VII.
Ominous Signs observed in the Indian Country—The Chieftain Brant
and the British Again at wore—Depredations on the Frontiers—
Failure of Attempts to Negotiate a Peace—The Indians Demand
that the Whites Shall Remove east of the Onto—Vigorous Meas
ures Resolved on—St. Clair's Conferences with Secretary of War
—Successful Expeditions ok Scott and Wileinson—Expedition of
Contents. xi
General IIarmai: and Severe Encounters wrrn the Indians—St.
Clair appointed Major-General and Commander-in-Chief—His Dis
astrous Campaign — Responsibility of toe War Department—
Scandalous Conduct op the Quartermaster-General—Report ok
Congressional Committee Vindicating St. Clair from Blame—
Massacres of the White Settlers—Reorganization of Army
Under General Wayne — Failure of Negotiations Result in
Conquering a Peace—Murder ok Messengers—Legend of Louisa
St. Clair 167
CHAPTER VIII.
1793-1798—Interest lir National Polities—Against the French Par
ty—The Scheme to Return to Pennsylvania Abandoned—Second
Stage of Govervment in the North-western Territory—Meeting
ok the Legislature—Important Wore in the Revision of the
Code ok Laws—Rapid Increase in Population—The Connecticut
Land Company—Commotion at Post Vincennes and Judge Tur
ner—Political Excitement—Spanish and British Intrigues in
the North-western Territory and Kentucey— Influence and
Brilliant Talents of Wileinson—Proclamation of St. Ci.air
Warning Against the French Agents—Geohce Rogers Claree a
French Major-Gbneral—Division of People of Territory into
Parties 186
CHAPTER LX
1797-1802—Advancement of Winthrop Sargent—William Henry Harri
son appointed Secretary—New Stage in the Territorial Govern
ment—Popular Election ok Legislature—Ahsolute Veto ok the
Governor—Right to Erect New Counties in Dispute—Popularity of
St. Clair—His Efforts to Preserve the Rights of the People—
The Common Law—Important Services of Jacob Burnet—Influ
ence of the Great Land Holders—Attempts to introduce Slav
ery—Kentucey Claims Jurisdiction over Ohio River—Address to
President Adams—Division oe the Territory—Harrison Governor
ok Indiana Territory—The Virginia Colony in the Scioto Valley
—Political Schemes—Antagonism to Governor St. Clair—His
Ability as a Leader and Strength with his Party—Intrigue to Se
cure his Removal Defeated—Reappointed Governor ny President
Adams—Movement for a State Government—Counter Movement—
xii Contents.
BITTERNESS OF POLITICAL DIVISIONS—COLONEL WoRTHIXGTON IN WASH
INGTON—Triumph of the State Party—Attempt to Secure the
Removal of St. Clair through Jefferson, and its Failure—Con
vention to Form a State Constitution"—Address of Governor St.
Clair and its Consequences—True History of the Intrigues against
Him and His Removal 207
CHAPTER X.
1803-1818—Closing Days—Importance of the Wore of St. Clair in the
North-western Territory—A Wilderness Civilized and a People
made Prosperous and Happy—Return of the Veteran to Ligonier
—Financial Affairs—The Government of the Uxited States pleads
the Statute of Limitations, which Act, with the Aid of the Em
bargo Law, brings St. Clair's Estate to Forced Sale, and reduces
the old Soldier and Family to Poverty—Depth of Party Prejudi
ces—St. Clair removes to Chestnut Ridge—Visited by Distin
guished Citizens—Interesting Relic of the Revolutionary Period
—Privations endured—Sympathy of New Yore Ladies—Ingrati
tude—The Last of Earth 248
THE ST. CLAIR PAPERS.
CORRESPONDENCE, ADDRESSES, ETC.
1771-1775—BoundaryTroubi.es between Pennsylvania and Virginia—
Lord Dunmore's Indian War 257
THE REVOLUTIONARY WAR.
Correspondence detween St. Clair and Washington, Schuyler, Reed,
Wilson, and others 363
LIFE AND PUBLIC SERVICES
ARTHUR ST. CLAIR.
CHAPTER I.
1754-1775—Birth and Education-—Services is the French War—Mar
riage— Lord Dunmore's War and the Boundary Troubles between
Pennsylvania and Virginia.
The St. Clairs figure prominently in history, song, and
story.1 In Xormandy, they controlled lands, castles, and
troops of men, and were closely allied to royal blood. In
the eleventh century, William de St. Clair, second son of
AValderne Compte de St. Clair, and Margaret, daughter to
Richard, Duke of Normandy, settled in Scotland, and
soon his name appeared on the roll of the followers of
Malcom Csenmore, and, thenceforward, for generations, his
descendants are found in loyal support of the monarchs
of that country. The St. Clairs shared in the triumphs
and the humiliations of the House of Stuart, receiving
honors on the one hand, and accepting exile and poverty
on the other. Reconciled to the union of Scotland with
England and the Protestant succession, they continued
devotedly attached to royalty, without exception, until the
signal gun in the American war of Independence was
tired; but whether as Catholic or Protestant, monarchist
or republican, always displaying a martial spirit, and al1
See Song of Harold ("bard of brave St. Clair"), and Note, in
" The Lay of the Last Minstrel" Can to -VI. And nl>o Captain Wedderburn's
Courtship, English and Scottish Ballads, Vol. VI II.
2 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
ways true to the cause espoused. "Wo have here to do with
the republican St. Clair, one of the best and noblest of the
race, whose good fortune it was to be the friend and asso
ciate of "Washington and La Fayette in the struggle for
Independence, and the first Chief Magistrate under the
Ordinance of 1787.
Arthur St. Clair was born in the town of Thurso, in
Caithness, Scotland, in the year 1734. The month or day
is not known. He was a descendant of a noble family,'
and inherited the fine personal appearance and manly
traits, remarked in both French and English history, of the
St. Claire. His father, being a younger son, possessed
neither lands nor title, and died at an early age, from the
effects of a life of idleness and pleasure. In his other
parent Arthur St. Clair was more fortunate, as she sup
plied not only the affection and tender care of a devoted
mother, but also the aid and counsel which had been due
from the father. At an early age, St. Clair was entered at
the University of Edinburgh, and, it having been deter
mined that he should follow a professional life, in due
course he was indentured to the celebrated Dr. William
Hunter, of London. But it is evident the life of a student
of medicine had no charms for him, since upon the death
1 The generally accepted opinion that Arthur St. Clair was a grandson
of the then Earl of Koslin, is erroneous. They were descendants of a
common ancestor. When Arthur St. Clair was Governor of the North
western Territory, he was applied to by William St. Clair, youngest
son of the Earl of Roslin, and brother of Lieutenant-Colonel James
St. Clair, of the British Army, for assistance in getting into business in
the Northwestern Territory. He was then in Canada (as the Detroit
country was called), and had been unfortunate in some business enter
prise. When Governor St. Clair organized the Hlinois country, he
appointed William St. Clair Clerk of the Courts of St. Clair County.
William St. Clair invested largely in lands, and located at Cahokia.
His family failing to get replies to letters addressed to him, finally ap
plied to Governor St. Clair for information. William St. Clair died at
Cahokia while Arthur St Clair was yet Governor, and it was reported
left his landed property to Arthur St. Clair, Jr. General Arthur St.
Clair was related by marriage to General Thomas fiage, who was re
called by his government after ihe conflict with the l'oloni>ts tit Lex
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 3
of his mother in the winter of 1756-57, little more than a
year after he was indentured, he purchased his time with
a part of the money he inherited, and through the influ
ence of friends obtained an ensign's commission in the
Sixtieth or Royal American regiment of Foot. 1 The com
mission bears date May 13, 1757, so that St. Clair was
about twenty-three years of age when he entered the mili
tary service of the King of Great Britain. The succeed
ing year was passed in acquiring familiarity with the
duties of his position. On the 28th of May, 1758, St. Clair
arrived, with Amherst, before Louisburg. There were
gathered here men soon to become famous, and Ensign St.
Clair was offered an opportunity to study the art of war
on the most active field. "With such men as "Wolfe and
Moncton, Murray and Lawrence, there was little chance
for idleness, while the martial spirit ever displayed by
them was calculated to stir a youth to deeds of emulation.
So well had Ensign St. Clair borne his part in the affair
of Louisburg, he received the commendation of his su
perior officers, and a recommendation for promotion. A
lieutenant's commission was issued to him, bearing date
April 17, 1759. It was his good fortune now to be assigned
to the command of General Wolfe, who had been selected
to reduce Quebec. Since the 13th of September of that
memorable year, which decided the fate of the French in
America, the story of the first battle on the Plains of
Abraham has continued to thrill the hearts of the youth
of two nations, and keep green the memory of the oppos
ing heroes—"Wolfe and Montcalm, equal in military genius,
in courage and patriotic devotion to country. That story
need not be repeated here. This only interests us, that
our St. Clair took a conspicuous part in that brilliant and
1The Royal American regiment was projected by the Duke of
Cumberland. It consisted of four battalions of 1,000 men each. The
First and Second battalions, which were the most noted, were com
manded respectively by Moncton and Lawrence. In 175S, Major Gen
eral Amherst was appointed Commander-in-Chief of all of the forces
in America, and Colonel of the Sixtieth regiment. St. Clair was a
subordinate in the second battalion.
r
4 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
fatal affair, and that he bore himself as a brave soldier
should in battle. His battalion had been joined with other
light troops under command of Colonel Howe, 1 who had
been elected to the post of honor in scaling the heights.
These, " who found themselves borne by the current
a little below the intrenched path, clambered up the steep
hill, staying themselves by the roots and boughs of the
maple and spruce and ash trees that covered the precipitous
declivity, and, after a little firing, dispersed the picket
which guarded the height. The rest ascended safely by
the pathway. A battery of four guns on the left was
abandoned to Colonel Howe."2 Then came the fatal
struggle on the plains, during which Lieutenant St. Clair
seized the colors, which had fallen from the hand of a
dying soldier, and bore them until the field was won by
the British. 3
General Murray, with five thousand men, including
the Royal Americans, was left in the garrison. He pushed
his outposts as far as Lorette, and Sainte-Foye, two or
three leagues from Quebec; and a war of skirmishings
continued, despite the season's rigor. Through great
effort the defenses were completed so as to sustain a siege,
in time to check the French, who, under De Levis, were
moving in strong force to recapture the ancient capital of
Canada. The garrison was greatly reduced by death,
caused by lack of fresh provisions. St. Clair shared in all
of the labors and privations of the winter, and in the
1 Afterward, Sir William Howe, and Commander-in-Chief of the
British army in America.
* Bancroft, Vol. IV., p. 333. M. Garneau in his " L'Histoire du
Canada," says the light infantry were headed by Wolfe, but the state
ment made by Bancroft, that Colonel Howe was the leader, and by his
troops covered the ascent of the main body, is confirmed by Hildreth.
It is also confirmed by Alex. Johnston, friend and neighbor of St.
Clair, in his declining years, who has furnished the Western Reserve
Historical Society with " Recollections " of conversations with St. Clair.
aMS. See also Wilkinsons Memoirs, Chap. 2, p. 84: "He" [St.
Clair] "served at the taking of Louisburg under General Amherst,
and in the next campaign carried a pair of colors on the Plains of
Abraham."
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 5
severe battle of the Buttes-a-Ne'veu, which was brought
on by the rash bravery of Murray. The French now
entered on a regular siege; the position of the British be
came desperate, and they were only saved from defeat and
the loss of Quebec by the opportune arrival of some ships,
which caused De Levis to raise the siege,1 and retire to
Montreal. Thither he was followed by Murray, who was
joined by Amherst with a large force of fresh troops, and
the French were besieged in turn. It soon becomi ng evident
to M. de Vaudreuil that his cause was hopeless, he directed
I)e Levis to arrange with the enemy for terms, and articles
of capitulation were signed September 8, 1760: By this
act, Montreal, Presque Isle, Detroit, Mackinaw, and all of
the other posts in the Western country which had been
founded by the Jesuits, and had so long been the pride of
the French, passed under the control of the British. The
time was not distant when these became of deeper interest
and far greater importance to the American colonists;
when from their very gates issued a savage foe, the allies
of brethren here present, whose cruelties filled with terror
the borders stretching to the southward for a thousand
miles!
Doubtless, to none in the British army was the cessa
tion of severe campaign work more welcome than to young
St. Clair. He had, since his arrival in America, formed a
tender attachment, and it is reasonable to suppose that his
ardent temperament would lead him to prefer the society
of his beloved to associations on the tented field, though
never so glorious. It appears that after the siege of Que
bec was raised he obtained a furlough and repaired to
Boston, where he was married to Miss Phcebe Bayard,
daughter of Belthazar Bayard and Mary Bowdoin, his wife,
who was a half-sister of Governor James Bowdoin. How
an acquaintance was brought about between these young
people is not known, but it is presumed that during St.
Clair's service and frequent visits to Boston, where he was
sent on military business to the governor, he made the
acquaintance of the Bowdoins and Bayards, and improved
1 Knox's Historical Journal.
6 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
the opportunity to fall in love with the young lady, who
was thoroughly educated, of amiable disposition and agree
able manners. Ensign St. Clair, a favorite of popular
British commanders, a descendant of an ancient and dis
tinguished Scotch family, tall, graceful, dignified, with
chestnut hair, handsome blue-gray eyes, and blonde com
plexion, master of all of the accomplishments of the draw
ing-room, including the art of entertaining conversation,
could not fail to be an acceptable visitor in the best fami
lies of Boston, and suitor for the hand of such a young
lady as Miss Phoebe Bayard. It has been suggested by
Hon. Robert C. Winthrop,1 that there may be a clue to
St. Clair's marriage with a Bowdoin, in the fact that
Major William Erving (who endowed the Erving Profes
sorship of Chemistry at Harvard College), was a brother
of Mrs. Governor Bowdoin, and served as an Aide-deCamp
to "Wolfe at Quebec. He and St. Clair were doubt
less friends, and through him a proper introduction at
Boston would follow.
By this marriage, St. Clair received the sum of £14,000,
being a legacy to his wife from her grandfather, James
Bowdoin. This sum, added to what he had saved of his
own fortune, made St. Clair a man of wealth, and the
brilliant prospect before him influenced him to hasten the
time when he should retire from the army. On the 16th
of April, 1762, he resigned his commission, and spent some
time in Boston. Mr. Alex. Johnston, and other friends of
St. Clair in Western Pennsylvania, were of the opinion
that he assisted in repelling the Indians from that section
in 1763, the year when the articles of peace were signed,
and that he commanded, for a time, at Fort Ligonier, in
which service he received the title of Captain. A writer
in the National IntellUjencer, in a sketch of the services of
St. Clair, declared that General Gage appointed him to
take command of the forts in Western Pennsylvania. The
only documentary confirmation of this, in St. Clair's own
hand, is a letter2 written to the President of Pennsylvania
1 In a, letter to Alfred T. Goodman, Esq.
* rennsylcanix Archives, Vol. X, p. 483: It is said by one writer,
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 7
in 1785, in which he says that a part of the grounds at
Fort Pitt were granted to him by General Gage.1 It is
certain that he resigned from the British army in 1762, as
before stated, and if he served in "Western Pennsylvania,
it must have been under a different commission. Be this
as it may, there is reason to believe that in the year 1764,
St. Clair and his young wife removed first to Bedford, and
then to the Ligonier Valley, where he had acquired a
large tract of land, partly by purchase and partly by grant
by the King, for his services in the French war. The fine
stretch of valley land, where the village of Ligonier was
afterwards built, was a part of that located by St. Clair.
The fact that a number of Scotch families, 2 all prominent
in the stirring times that followed, had settled here, was
an additional inducement for St. Clair to become a pioneer.
He entered actively on the improvement of his property,3
that when the French war was closed, St. Clair " hart the command of
Fort Ligonier assigned him; and also received a grant of one thousand
acres of land in that vicinity, which he fancifully chose to lay out
in the form of a circle." — History of Western Pennsylvania, p. 281
Among the St. ( lair papers are letters of Colonel Boquet, of that date,
and in a Utter of Boquet to Governor Penn, 1763, from camp in West
ern Pennsylvania, there is a humorous allusion to St. Clair. When St.
Clair died, two towns, Ligonier and Greensburg, disputed for the honor
of having his body buried in their cemeteries. Colonel Ramsay, an
old citizen, who laid out the town of Ligonier on behalf of the former,
appealed to Mrs. Kobb, a daughter of St. Clair, in the presence of Alex.
•Johnston, and urged upon her the fact that her father had once been
the captain of Old Fort Ligonier. A correspondent of the Pittsburgh
Chronicle, in a letter recently published, claims that he has seen in the
Land Office at Harrisburg, a record stating that St. Clair commanded
at Fort Ligonier in 1 769.
1 A letter after the war to Gov. Penn. This does not assert that he
was in command of the posts, but that, having a family connection
with General Gage, he was requested to confer with that officer for
military protection for the frontier.
2 Here came the Wilsons, the Harbisons, the McFarlands, the 31cDowells,
the Campbells, and the Hannas. —Letter of Alex. Johnston.
sSt. Clair must have owned in Pennsylvania more land than the
records of the Land Office show. In addition to the grants of tho
King, a Greensburg correspondent of the Pittsburgh Chronicle, before
8 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
erected a fine residence, and built a grist-mill—the first,
and for many years, the only one in that section. The
situation here is one of the most romantic in all Pennsyl
vania, and had attracted the attention of the Scotch Gen
eral Forbes and companions, one of whom afterwards
furnished a description of it, which doubtless induced the
families before referred to, to settle there. When that
General, in 1758, marched over the Alleghany Mountains
for the purpose of taking Fort Du Quesue, after crossing
the main range, he passed for a dozen miles through forest
glades, until he reached another mountain range running
north and south, almost parallel to the Alleghanies. This
was called the Laurel Hill. At its western foot his army
entered a valley about six miles in width and thirty in
length, formed of the Laurel Hill on the eastern side, and
the Chestnut Ridge on the western. Midway in this val
ley Forbes struck a stream called by the Indians Lyalhenning,
and now known as Loyalhanna. Near this
stream, on his return, he erected a fort, which he called
Ligonier, in honor of Lord Ligonier, commander of the
British armies. The fort was about half way between
Fort Pitt and Fort Bedford, and it was calculated that it
would afford needed protection to frontier settlers. The
healthfulness and pieturesqueness of the situation, the
abundance of timber and game of every kind, insured an
early settlement.
Hither came St. Clair, and entered actively on civil life.
TVe shall see that his own private affairs were not permitted
long to have his exclusive attention. On the 5th of April,
1770, he was appointed Surveyor for the District of Cum
berland, which then embraced the western part of the
State. A month later, the offices of Justice of the Court
of Quarter Sessions and Common Pleas, and Member of the
quoted, makes the following statement: " In 1783, he was granted, by
warrant dated September 24, a tract of 6,219 acres along the Loyal
hanna Creek. In all there were 10,K81 acres of land, the property of
St. Clair, and of these, 8,270 acres lay within the confines of West
moreland county." The Journals of the Old Continental Congress
sliow that in 1786, Congress granted St. (lair 5.000 acres in one body.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 9
Proprietary, or Governor's Council for Cumberland county
were conferred upon him. When Bedford county was
erected, in 1771, the Governor made St. Clair a Justice of
the Court, Recorder of Deeds, Clerk of the Orphan's Court,
and Prothonotary of the Court of Common Pleas for that
county.1 The same year, St. Clair, in connection with
Moses McLean, ran a meridian line, nine and a half miles
west of the meridian of Pittsburgh. In 1773, Westmore
land was erected from Bedford, when Governor Penn sent
St. Clair appointments, corresponding with those held by
him for Bedford.
The year 1774 was one of thrilling interest to the in
habitants of Pennsylvania and Virginia, and it proved to be
the last in which, as British subjects, they participated in
Indian warfare. In that year Lord Dunmore moved
against the Ohio Indians, and the killing of Logan's fam
ily, and other Indians, was committed by the white inhabi
tants settled upon the Ohio, near Wheeling and Yellow
Creek. There was wide dissatisfaction amongst the tribes
that had shown a friendly disposition, and, with a view to
prevent a more serious outbreak, Sir William Johnston's
deputy Indian agent caused a meeting to be held at Pitts
burgh, which St. Clair attended. The conference with
the Indians, who embraced deputies from the Six Nations,
the Delawares, Shawanese, Munsies, Mohickons, and
Twightwees, really extended over a good part of the
month of May, beginning on the first. The threatened
depredations were checked, but only for a brief season,
1 "At a Council held at Philadelphia on the 23d of November, 1771, a
special commission for holding a Court of Oyer and Terminer at Bed
ford. Pa., was appointed to try Lieut. Robert Hamilton, of His Majesty's
18th Regiment of Foot, who stood charged with the murder of Lieut.
Tracy, of the same regiment, in the county of Bedford. The Governor
issued a special commission, appointing the three eldest justices of the
peace in Bedford county to hold said Court. The commission was di
rected to John Frazer. Bernard Docherty, and ArthurSt. Clair, Esquires.
The reason for the appointment of this commission was that it would
be inconvenient for the Judges of the Supreme Court to take a journey
at this season so far as Bedford." —From the Record of Proceedings of
Governor and Executive Council.
10 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
and twenty years were yet to pass before the red man was
conquered, and the settlers on the border could lie down
at night without dread of the stealthy tread and bloody
tomahawk of the savage.
During this year, the controversy which had broken out
in 1752, between the proprietors of Pennsylvania and the
Governor of Virginia, as to the right of jurisdiction in
that part of country bordering on the head-waters of
the Ohio, was renewed, and what with this and the Indian
depredations the unhappy inhabitants were driven to des
perate straits. The lands in the neighborhood of Pitts
burgh had been surveyed for the proprietors of Penn
sylvania in 1769, and the year following Pennsylvania
magistrates were appointed, who continued in the exercise
of their duties without molestation from Virginia until
the beginning of 1774. At this time, Dr. John Connolly,
a native of Pennsylvania, and " a man of much energy and
talent, but without principle," appeared on the ground,
and having authority from Lord Dunmore, Governor of
Virginia, took possession of Fort Pitt, which had been
ahandoned by the British government, calling it Fort
Dunmore; and, as Captain Commandant of the Virginia
Militia, issued his proclamation, calling on the people to
meet him, as a militia, on the 25th of January, 1774. For
so doing, St. Clair, then a magistrate of Westmoreland
county, issued a warrant against him, and had him com
mitted to jail, at Hannastown, the seat of justice of West
moreland, which embraced Pittsburgh ; from which, how
ever, he was soon released, by giving bis word for his ap'pearance
at court. Hereupon, a lengthy correspondence
took place between the Governors, which, on the part of
Lord Dunmore, was arrogant and unbecoming his position.
In rehearsing the claims of Virginia, his Lordship insisted
that Mr. St. Clair should be punished for his temerity in
arresting his agent by dismissal from office, unless he could
prevail upon Connolly to apply for his pardon. In his re
ply, which was in admirable temper, Governor Penn de
clined to remove St. Clair, who, he said, as a good magis
trate, was bound to take legal notice of Mr. Connolly.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 11
" Mr. St. Clair is a gentleman," continued the Governor,
" who for a long time had the honor of serving his maj
esty in the regulars with reputation, and in every station
of life has preserved the character of a very honest, worthy
man ; and though, perhaps, I should not, without first ex
postulating with you on the subject, have directed him to
take that step, yet you must excuse my not complying
with your Lordship's requisition of stripping him, on this
occasion, of his offices and livelihood, which you will allow
me to think not only unreasonable, but somewhat dic
tatorial."
Counter arrests and much correspondence followed, but
the controversy was soon obscured somewhat by the stir
ring events of Lord Dunmore's "War. After this had
ended, disturbances were again renewed. Connolly was
again arrested ; but a counter arrest of three of the Penn
sylvania justices caused his release. Xow, however, the
Boundary Troubles were lost sight of for some years by
that storm of war which burst over the whole country.
It was to this new and more importautsptheater that St.
Clair was invited.
12 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
CHAPTER n.
1775-1777—Meeting at Hannastown to Protest against Aggressions
op Great Britain—Treaty with Indians at Pittsburgh—St. Clair
Suggests Expedition to Detroit—Appointed Colonel of Second
Pennsylvania—Covers Retreat from Canada—Siceness and DeMORAI.lZmON
OF ARMY ON BORDER OF Laee ClIAMPI.AIN—St. CLAIR
Ordered to Reinforce Washington—Desperate Straits of the
Army—Suffering in the Winter—Batti.es of Trenton and Prince
ton—St. Clair Suggests an Ingenious Movement by which the Army
Eludes the British—Brilliant Results.
When the differences between the Colonies and the
mother-country finally culminated in preparations for co
ercion on the one side and resistance on the other, St.
Clair was in the prime of life. He is spoken of in the
correspondence of contemporaries as a man of imposing
appearance, graceful, cultivated, whose agreeable and in
telligent conversation, captivating manners, and honorable
principles won all hearts. We shall see in what respect
and enduring friendship he was held by Washington,
La Fayette, Hamilton, Schuyler, Wilson, Reed, and others
of the most distinguished of the patriots of the Revolu
tion. The brilliant and versatile Wilkinson referred to it
as a piece of great jrood fortune that he was permitted to
be associated with St. Clair, and wrote of him as the
" great St. Clair." Later in life, when he had known
something of both the smiles and frowns of Fortune,
Judge Burnet spoke of him as " unquestionably a man of
superior talents, of extensive information, and of great up
rightness of purpose, as well as suavity of manners. . . .
He had been accustomed from infancy, to mingle in the
circles of taste and refinement, and had acquired a polish
of manners, and a habitual respect for the feelings of others,
which might be cited as a specimen of genuine polite
ness."1 He was at this time (1775) in the enjoyment of
1 Notes on the Northwestern Territory, p. 378.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 13
all that man need wish for to secure happiness. He pos
sessed in a large degree the public confidence. " In this
situation,"' says Wilkinson,1 "the American Revolution
found him, surrounded by a rising family, in the enjoy
ment of ease and independence, with the fairest prospects
of affluent fortune, the foundation of which had been al
ready established by his intelligence, industry, and enter
prise. From this peaceful abode ; these sweet domestic en
joyments, and the flattering prospects which accompanied
them, he was drawn by the claims of a troubled country.
A man known to have been a military officer, and dis
tinguished for knowledge and integrity, could not in those
times be concealed, even by his favorite mountains, and,
therefore, without application or expectation on his part,
he received the commission of a colonel, in the mouth of
December, 1775, together with a letter from President Han
cock, pressing him to repair immediately to Philadelphia.
He obeyed the summons, and took leave not only of his
wife and children, but, in effect, of his fortune,2 to embark
1 Memoirs of My Own Times, p. 84.
James Wilkinson was a native of Maryland. He entered the army
at an early age, and was first assigned to a position in connection with
General Washington's headquarters. He served on the staff of Gen•
ral St. Clair, and was his brigade major at the battles of Trenton and
Princeton, which he so graphically describes in his Memoirs. He ac
companied General Gates to the Northern Department, and was ap
pointed Adjutant General of that Department, and was at the battle of
Saratoga. It was about this time that Washington remarked that
Wilkinson possessed a more promising military genins than almost
any he knew. Wilkinson emigrated to Kentucky, at the close of the
war, and went into business there. When St. Clair became Governor
of the North-western Territory, their acquaintance was renewed, and
Wilkinson soon received an appointment in the army. He eventually
became Commander-in-Chief, and, after a brilliant career, died in 1825.
Wilkinson was well educated, was a fine orator, and was one of the
most accomplished men of his day.
2 "At the commencement of the Revolution, St. Clair owned seven
hundred acres of good land, on which the town of Ligonier now stands.
This was the only grant St. Clair obtained before the Revolution, but
it was a most beautiful property, and promised to become very valua
ble. The losses ot St. Clair in the war were such that he was forced
14 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
in the cause of liberty and the United Colonies."' " I
hold," wrote St. Clair to his intimate friend James Wil
son,1 " I hold that no man has a right to withhold his ser
vices when his country needs them. Be the sacrifice ever
so great, it must be yielded upon the altar of patriotism." '
The Scotch residents of Westmoreland were not indif
ferent to the perils ot the times, and on the 16th of May
a meeting was held at Hannastown for the purpose of
protesting against the aggressions of the mother-country,
which was participated in by St. Clair. " My first connec
tion with the United States," says he, in that pathetic let
ter to the Congressional Committee, in his old age, " my
first connection with the United States began in the year
1775. Congress had appointed commissioners to repair to
Fort Pitt to treat with the Indians, and induce them to a
neutrality during our contest with Great Britain. These
were the late Judge Wilson, of Pennsylvania, General
Lewis Morris, of New York, and Dr. Walker, of Virginia.
The two first were members of that body and my particu
lar friends. On their way to the rendezvous they called
upon me, and requested that I would accompany them
and act as their secretary during the negotiations, to which
I consented ; and, in the course of time, formed the proto
give up his Ligonier estate. It passed from St. Clair to James
Galbraith, from him to James Ramsey, and from him to his son, John
Ramsey, who founded upon it the town of Ligonier. He attempted to
have the town called Ramsey, but old Fort Ligonier gave its name not
only to the town, but to the whole valley, of which one township is
called St. Clair."—MS. letter of Alex. Johnston.
1 James Wilson, a signer of the Declaration of Independence, and
one of the most distinguished men of the Revolutionary period, was,
like St. Clair, a native of Scotland. He came to Philadelphia in 1766,
when he was twenty-four years of age, and studied and practiced law
there. In the Convention which framed the Federal Constitution, he
ranked high as a debater, and was Chairman of the Committee which
reported the Constitution. In 1789, he was appointed a judge of the
United States Supreme Court, which position he held until his death,
in 1798. He was devotedly attached to St. Clair, and, after the latter
was appointed Governor of the North-western Territory, he tried to
prevail on him to return to Pennsylvania and enter political life there.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 15
ject of a volunteer expedition to surprise Detroit, which I
thought very practicable iu that way, provided the Indians
would engage not to oppose it. That project I communi
cated to the commissioners, who entered into it warmly;
and, in consequence of their approbation, I engaged be
tween four and five hundred young men, in a very short
time, who were to furnish their own horses, forage, and
provisions ; they required nothing from the public but
ammunition, which could not be procured in that part of
the country. The commissioners strongly recommended
the measure to Congress; but, after a delay of many
weeks, it was disapproved, and the reason assigned was
that General Arnold was before Quebec, and the fall of
that place was counted on as certain, and Detroit, as a
dependency must fall with it, and would be included in
the capitulation. The true reason I suppose to have been
the scarcity of ammunition."
But Arnold's expedition ended in disaster.1 If the plan
suggested by St. Clair had been carried out, and Detroit
surprised and captured, would the possession of that im
portant western post by the colonists have proved a check
upon the Indians ?
The letter from President Hancock called St. Clair to
Philadelphia. He resigned his civil offices, and repaired
to that city for orders. On the 22d of January following,
he received instructions to raise a regiment to serve in
Canada, and in six weeks (such was the popular confidence
in St. Clair) the regiment 2 was completed, " not a single
man wanting," and on the 12th of March it left Philadel
phia, for the north, fully equipped. " I had six companies
of it," says St. Clair, " in the vicinity of Quebec, on the
1 " Men of different opinions concerning the policy of nations will
judge differently with regard to this expedition; but whether they de
termine the ends of it good or evil, all must allow, that it was a great
undertaking, and conducted with much intrepidity." —Murray's "An
Impartial History of the Present Warin America," Vol. II. p. 569.
•This was the Second Pennsylvania, regarded as the crack regiment
of that province.
/
16 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
11th of May, just in time to cover the retreat of the army
from that place, aud the other four companies at Sorel,
on the St. Lawrence."
The situation of the American army when St. Clair
arrived in Canada was very critical. While Congress was
resolving to send reinforcements and hard money1 to keep
the good-will of the Canadians, Arnold was contriving
how to escape from Montreal, and General Thomas was
attempting to remove his sick and cannon from before
Quebec to a place of safety, agreeably to the decision of
a council of war held on the 5th of May. The good-will
of the Canadians, which had been manifested to the noble
Montgomery the year "before, had lately been withdrawn,
on account of the lawless conduct of the American troops,
and supplies could no longer be obtained. "Washington
had expressly instructed Arnold to see that the Canadians
were not despoiled of their goods, and were made to feel
that the colonists were their brethren ; but they were rob
bed and cheated on every hand, and, to add to the dis
grace, vast quantities of valuable goods were carried away
from Montreal by Arnold's express command.
Disaster quickly followed disaster. An important post
at the Cedars was surrendered in the most cowardly man
ner to Captain Forster, of Detroit, whose force consisted of
only one hundred and forty men, besides Indians, while
reinforcements for the garrison were on the way from
Montreal, and General Arnold was prepared to follow with
several hundred more.
The departure from Quebec had been so long delayed
that General Carleton, greatly strengthened by recent ac
cessions from without, was enabled to take the offensive.
Thomas, with the few men he could collect, not exceeding
two hundred and fifty, retreated in great disorder to Point
Deschambault, forty-eight miles above Quebec. "Many
of the sick, with all of the military stores, fell into the
hands of the enemy. Unfortunately, to their quantity
1The whole amount nf hard money in the Continental Treasury at
this period was £1,662 Is .'id.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 17
were added two tons of powder, just sent down by General
Schuyler, and five hundred stand of small arms."1 After
halting at Point Deschambault for a few days, General
Thomas retreated to the mouth of the Sorel2 " in a con
dition not to be expressed by words ; but had the satis
faction of being joined there by four regiments that were
waiting for them,"3 of which the Pennsylvania troops
brought by St. Clair constituted a part. Shortly after his
arrival, General Thomas was taken ill of the small-pox,
and removed to Chambly, where, on the 2d of June, he died.
Colonel St. Clair had left Montreal, where he had been
to consult with the Committee of Congress, on the 15th
of May, for Sorel. A plan for fortifying Deschambault
had been agreed on.4
During the illness of General Thomas, and for several days after his death, General Thompson s was in command
1 Marshalts Life of Washington, Vol. II., p. 327, who also adds: " Much
to the honor of General Carleton, he pursued the wise and humane
policy of treating with gentleness the sick and other prisoners that
fell into his hands."
2 M. Garneau says : " They halted not till they arrived at Sorel."
Hildreth makes the same mistake. The authorities for the statement
made in the text, are manuscripts in the State Department Gordon
and Marshall, who, writing of events when they were fresh, must be
accepted as the highest authorities, Bancroft and Irving. The fact
of a second council being held at Deschambault, and that the place
was declared to be untenable, is distinctly stated.
a Gordon— Vol. II., p. 253. "The Americans have lost in him one of
their best generals." Ibid. General Thomas " had prohibited inocu
lation among his troops, because it put too many of their scanty num
ber on the sick list; he probably fell a victim to his own prohibition."
Irving s Life of Washington, Vol. II., p. 251. General John Thomas served
in the old French and Indian war and was appointed from Massachusetts.
* Forces American Archives, Fourth Series, Vol. VI., p. 578. —The letter
of the Commissioners to General Schuyler is interesting, as showing
the delusion the Americans were under as to the number of British
troops in Canada.
6Carrington, in his " Battles of the Revolution," p. 166, remarks that
"Chief Justice Marshall supplies a fact in this connection which rec
onciles other historical accounts, and shows that during the four days
which intervened between the death of General Thomas and the ar
2
18 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
of the forces at Sorel, and it was at this time that St. Clair
suggested to him the " practicability of retarding, at least,
if not preventing entirely, the British transports from
passing up the river by taking post at the village of Three
Kivers, from which place he had seen in the former war
a division of them very much injured and obliged to fall
back, and proposed to gain possession of it with six hun
dred men."1
General Thompson agreed to it, and on the fifth day of
June St. Clair marched from the camp of Sorel to the vil
lage of Nicolet, which is opposite to the lower end of
the lake St. Peter, on the south side, whence he intended
to cross the St. Lawrence, and the boats that were neces
sary were ordered to join him there in the night. A few
hours after S.t. Clair's departure, General Sullivan arrived
at Sorel, and being informed of what had been done, de
tached General Thompson, with two or three regiments,
including Colonel Irvine's and a detachment of Wayne's,
to join the forces at Nicolet. He arrived there that
night and took the command. All the next day was spent
in working on the redoubts, and on the succeeding night
General Thompson crossed the lake without any accident,
landing about two hours before day, but at a point sev
eral miles beyond the one designated.2 It was now that
General Thompson committed the blunder that lost the
day and defeated the object of the expedition.
St. Clair's plan had been to surprise the enemy at Three
Rivers, where, it was supposed, from information com
municated by the Canadians, there was but a small de
tachment, from five to eight hundred men, fortify and
delay or prevent the British transports from passing up
rival of General Sullivan, General Thompson was in command, and
that he sent St. Clair to Nicolet for the purpose of surprising the Brit
ish post at Three Rivers." It is singular that historical writers of a
later day overlook this fact, and treat of the movement to Three Hiver»
as having been made directly under orders of General Sullivan. General
Sullivan's real responsibility, and an inaccuracy of Colonel Car.
rington's, are noticed in the text.
1 St. Clair s Narrative. Appendix, pp. 236-38.
2 Joiuntal of Colonel Irvine, Hist. Mag., Vol. VIII.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 19
the river. General Sullivan had approved of the plan,
and having more reliable information than his subordi
nates, had thought it advisable to increase the force to two
thousand men. Even then, out of abundant caution, he
instructed Thompson not to attack the encampment at
Three Rivers " unless there was great prospect of success,
as his defeat might prove the total loss of Canada."1
But it is evident that Sullivan was not aware of the ex
tent to which the British troops had been reinforced, and
that he had the most buoyant anticipations of the result
of his enterprises in Canada. To Washington he wrote :
" I venture to assure you, and the Congress, that I can in
a few days reduce the army to order, and, with the assist
ance of a kind Providence, put a new face to our affairs
here, which a few days since seemed almost impossible."
If success was had at Three Rivers, he would fortify at
Point Deschambault, and make that the base of operations
against Quebec. The confidence of the Canadians had
been restored to the Colonists, and all would go well.
The Canadians were deceiving him, perhaps, with a view
of regaining the friendship of the British, who, since their
friendly greeting to Montgomery, had been suspicious of
them. The American forces had scarcely effected a land
ing on the hither side of St. Peter, when a Canadian2 has
tened to General Fraser's encampment, at Three Rivers,
and apprised him of the movements of the Americans.
Meanwhile, the rumor had been adroitly spread among
the American troops that the British had a post, distant
about three miles, at a white house on the main road to
the village, and it soon reached General Thompson. We
will let St. Clair finish the story :
" It had been the intention not to pursue the main road,
but to strike off from it into another that lay nearly par
allel, but at some distance from the river, and the point of
separation was between us and the white house. General
Thompson, on hearing that the British were in his neigh1
Irving''s Washington, Vol. II., p. 252.
1 Gordon. Garneau says by a Captain of Militia. P. 152.
20 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
borhood, instantly put the detachment in motion to sur
prise them; but, when we reached the house, there were
no troops there, nor laid any been there ; the place, how
ever, where the roads separated had been passed, and we
were full two miles advanced of it; the guide, a very in
telligent man, thought we might gain the intended road
by marching across the forest, in less time than must nec
essarily be spent in going back to the place first proposed,
but without any path; it was accordingly attempted, but
a considerable time was spent without reaching it, and the
General became suspicious that the guide was misleading
him, and impatient of the delay, and the sun being near
the rising, he ordered the troops back on their track to
the main road they had quitted, where they were soon dis
covered and fired upon from an advanced guard-boat. The
colors were then displayed and the drums ordered to beat,
and he resolved attempting that by open force which had in
tended to be done by surprise. The detachment marched
but a short distance, before an armed vessel, posted lower
down the river, opened her fire and annoyed it a good deal,
which induced the officer, who led the front division, to
strike off into a road that presented itself, leading obliquely
from the river, and that seemed as if it would fall into the
same road after crossing what appeared to be a small
wood, which would, in the mean time, cover the men from
the fire of the vessel. It led us, indeed, into the wood,
which was far from being a small one, as had been sup
posed, and was crossed with the utmost labor and difficulty,
being a morass the whole way through it, full three miles
over, knee deep nearly at every step, and intersected by a
small rivulet, which had to be crossed many times, and
took the men to their breasts.1 It opened at last upon a
cultivated plain at no great distance from the village, but
beyond it. Here we saw the transports were arrived, and
the troops2 busily debarking, and a considerable body, with
1 "A worse march, for about a mile and a half, did not offer in all
Arnold's Expedition. The men were almost mired."—Gordon, Vol. Ill,
p. 257.
2 The forces of General Nesbit.
Life and Fublic Services of Arthur St. Clair. 21
some pieces of artillery, coming to meet us. The advance
of the two corps were soon engaged, hut they were not
equal, and ours were ohliged to give way, and we were
forced to trace back our steps through the same dismal
swamp by which we had advanced."
The Americans lost in killed, wounded, and prisoners,
about two hundred;1 among the latter were General
Thompson, Colonel Irvine, and several other officers. The
British loss was trifling.2
The command of the Americans now fell to St. Clair,
who led them to the landing place. Here they found the
enemy formed in good order on a rising ground above the
1 Gordon, Vol. Ill, p. 258.
♦Charles Henry Junes, in his "History of the Campaign for the Conquest
of Canudu," gives the American loss as twenty-five killed and two hundred
prisoners, and tlio British loss as eight killed and nine wounded. The ac
counts of the battle of Three Rirers differ as to details, and as to the part
taken by prominent officers. The author of " Campaign for the Conquest
of Canada" says the Americans, after emerging from the swamp, con
tinued their march for three-quarters of a mile, within fifty yards of the
river, "under a galling fire from the shipping, when they were driven off
from the shore by the effect which the fire began to produce upon their
ranks, and soon became entangled in the swamp again. At this point the
divisions of St. Clair and Irvine separated from the divisions of Maxwell,
Wayne, and Hartley, the two former with General Thompson, marching in
a north-easterly direction back from the river; the three latter divisions
continuing their march near the shore. . . . Wayne at once attacked the
advance-guard of the enemy and drove them in upon the main body,
two thousand or threo thousand strong, under Brigadier-General Fraser,
strongly intrenched before tlio town. The Americans . . . displayed
great courage and gallantry, but the enemy opened such a murderous fire
upon them from behind their works that they were forced to give way."
Meanwhile, St. Clair's and Irvine's divisions, with General Thompson, were
advancing to support Wayne and Maxwell, but the enemy had, by landing
troops in the rear of the Americans, thrown them into confusion, and
General Thompson ordered the whole force to fall back to the cover of the
woods. " Lieutenant-Colonel Hartley, perceiving the confusion, led up the
reserves, and endeavored to cover the retreat." but was obliged, by the force
of the enemy, to fall back. (Sco pp. 74, 75.)
M. Garneau, in his "History of Canada" (Vol. II., p. 153), says the en
counter took place near a wood one and a half miles distant from the town,
and does not mention intrenchments. St. Clair says that as the Americans
appeared they saw the enemy landing from their vessels, and soon after they
came into collision. Gordon, Marshall, and St. Clair say that Thempson
directed the attack, which is probably correct.
I
22 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
point of the lake, and their boats removed. There seemed
nothing left but to lay down their arms, but St. Clair, de
termining to make an effort to escape, hastily formed his
men as with the design to attack, and making a move
ment to the right, which threw a point of woods between
them and the enemy, gave the order to continue in the road
until a road should be reached which led to an Acadian
village and crossed the Riviere de Loups, beyond which
St. Clair thought it improbable they would be pursued.
This proved a wise movement. The enemy amused them
selves by firing a harmless volley, but did not attempt to
follow. In two or three days they again reached Sorel
torn,, and demoralized, to the astonishment and chagrin
of poor Sullivan, who had gone so far while Thompson's
forces were encountering the enemy at Three Rivers, as to
write Washington of his supposed success. Alas! the
painful and humiliating task now fell to him of relating
the details of the unexpected disaster, and of preparing to
save his broken army from capture by the victorious
enemy, now numbering near thirteen thousand, and led
by Carleton, Burgoync, and Fraser.
But Sullivan did not immediately come to the conclu
sion to abandon the impossible enterprise of regaining
Canada. After the defeat at Throe Rivers, he wrote to
Washington that he was employed day and night in forti
fying and securing his camp, and that he was determined
to hold it as long as a person would stick to him.1
The camp at Sorel, says St. Clair, with a view to de
fense, had been ill chosen. " It was placed in low ground
lying along the St. Lawrence, from the mouth of the Sorel
downwards, and no otherwise fortified than by a four-gun
battery in front, on the edge of an extensive beach of mov
able sand, of which every high wind took up great quan
tities, and so filled the embrasures of the battery that the
cannon had to be dug out very frequently. The left flank
was perfectly secured by the Sorel, but on the right flank
there was nothing but a sort of abattis formed of very
1 Force's American Archives. 2 Gordon.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 23
tall pine saplings, which effectually hid every thing below
it, and would have covered completely the approach of an
enemy, and nothing more would have been requisite to
drive every man out of camp, than to set fire to the abattis
with a favorable wind.'" St. Clair had often remarked to
General Sullivan the danger of the situation,1 and pressed
him to change it and occupy the high ground. He did
not think it necessary, but after he had seen a strong
column of the enemy pass on the other side of the St.
Lawrence, called a council of his officers. There was a
unanimous expression of opinion in favor of an immedi
ate abandonment of the position. Thereupon, the General
directed that the boats be got above the rapids—a difficult
task, which could not have been accomplished but for the
Generals's own exertions2—dismounted his batteries and
retreated with his artillery and stores to the Isle-aux-Noix
in Lake Champlain, " and so critical was the movement,
that before the last of the boats were out of the reach of
musketry, the enemy entered the fort." 3
The retreat was conducted with consummate ability,
and the praise which it called forth was some compensation
for poor Sullivan. His field officers, numbering twentyseven,
including St. Clair, De Haas, Wayne, and Maxwell,
addressed him a letter on the occasion of his withdrawal
from the Northern Department, expressing their confidence
in him and appreciation of his labors.4
Thus ended " an eight months' campaign of checkered
fortunes, varying according to the dispositions, favoring or
unfavoring of the Canadians," "' the Americans having been
driven from every post, and having lost in the field, and by
sickness and desertion about five thousand men. Besides
this, their prestige as soldiers was gone, and their treasury
1"After the unlucky affair at Three Rivers, by his counsel to Gen
eral Sullivan at Sorel, he saved the army we had in Canada.— Wilkin
son's Memoirs, Vol. I., p. 85.
2St. Clair's account. 2Ibid.
'Force's American Archives, Fifth Series, Vol. I., p. 127.
5 Garneau, Vol. II., p. 153.
24 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
exhausted of "hard money." The outlook was gloomy
indeed.
Krom Me-aux-Xoix the Americans passed to Crown
Point, and thence to Ticonderoga.
Take a look at the army at Crown Point :
" At this place I found not an army, but a mob, the
shattered remains of twelve or fifteen very fine battalions,
ruined by sickness,1 fatigue, and desertion, and void of
avury idea of discipline or subordination. . . . We
have now three thousand sick, and about the same num
ber well; this leaves near five thousand men to be ac
counted for. Of these the enemy has cost us perhaps one,
sickucss another thousand, and the others, God alone
knows in what manner they are disposed of. Among the
few we have remaining, there is neither order, subordina-"
tion, nor harmony; the officers as well as men of one
colony insulting and quarreling with those of another."'
And (his same condition of demoralization was to be
continued for another year, and transferred to Ticonderoga
to wreck the fortunes of brave and patriotic officers, be
cause the master-spirits in Congress, who were conducting
the war, feared lest liberty might suffer something if men
were permitted with muskets in their hands for over one
hundred and eighty days!
A council of officers with General Schuyler at the head,
decided that Crown Point was untenable, and thereupon
Congress called in question the decision. General Gates,
who had meanwhile been placed in command by the same
infallible authority, defended the decision with some spirit
in a letter to Washington.3 He said that the most im1The
sickness was principally from small-pox. "I left them [the
sick | and walked around the island, and found the sick of the whole
artuv in the same situation, amounting to thousands, some dead, others
dying. Great numbers could not stand, calling on us (the physicians)
for help, and we had nothing to give them. It broke my heart, and I
wept until 1 had no more power to weep."—Dr. S»mmi J. Hyrick, of
.Vu&«<ct •wit •*, in t L :.t >j Jim TnuniuU.
' [•/ ifC-i. J.-.'im rmm6-•~
* IW* -lit^y • -t-.-'i ",\*. Fifth Series. Vol. I .. p *•"i '
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 25
portant of the field-officers—" Colonel St. Clair and Col
onel De Haas, in particular, men whose long service and
distinguished characters deservedly give their opinions a
preference "—acquiesced in the opinion of the general offi
cers. He added : " The ramparts are tumbled down, the
casements are fallen in, the barracks burnt, and the whole so
perfect a ruin that it would take five times the number of
our army, for several summers, to put it in defensible re
pair." Accordingly, the army was moved to Ticonderoga.
Here St. Clair remained during the summer, being kept
busy as presiding officer of a court-martial and in routine
camp duty. He was a favorite with the entire camp.
Colonel Hartley suggested to General Gates that the Penn
sylvania troops be brigaded together, and that Colonel
St. Clair, " an old and experienced officer, would be ex
ceedingly acceptable, and every one would act with confi
dence under him," as brigade commander. Colonel Ogden
declared that there was no better man, and that Congress
ought to appoint him a Brigadier.1
On the 28th of July, which fell on Sunday, St. Clair had
the honor of reading to the assembled troops the Declara
tion of Independence, a copy of wdiich had been received
from Philadelphia.2
On the 9th of August, St. Clair was elected a BrigadierGeneral
by Congress, and, subsequently, by order of the
same authority,3 left the Northern Department and joined
General Washington in New Jersey. Here, during that
memorable winter of 1776-77, in which the cause of the
1 Force's American Archives, Fifth Series, Vol. I., pp. 176 and 604.
* " Immediately after divine worship this day, the Declaration of In
dependence was read by Colonel St. Clair ; and having said, ' God save
the free independent States of America!' the army manifested their
joy with three cheers ! " —Ibid, p. 630.
2Official Order to Major-General Schuyler, from Headquarters, New
ark, November 26, signed by Harrison. It is proper to remark, how
ever, in this connection, that St. Clair was at Albany when the order
of Congress was made known to him. He had taken to that place at
request of General Schuyler, his brigade consisting then of the fine
regiment of DeHaas, and the First and Second Jersey regiments.
26 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
Americans was brought to extremest peril, and through
the genius, inspiring courage, and remarkable tact of
Washington, under Providence, was rescued, and com
manded the respectful attention of Europe, he shared in
the labors and privations, in the misfortunes, and in the
glorious triumphs of the army. Amid all the gloom he
never despaired. Other officers high in public esteem
might fall away, but St. Clair remained true to the cause
of freedom, and to the Chief who had been chosen to
represent it.
A brief retrospect of the expiring autumn and early
winter-days of 1770 will give us a clear view of the con
dition of "Washington's army when St. Clair joined it with
his brigade. The British commander suddenly ended the
uncertainty of his plan of campaign by sending Lord
Cornwallis across the Hudson with an overwhelming force
to invest and capture Fort Washington. This accom
plished, and Fort Lee in possession of the enemy, the way
was open through the Jerseys to the American capital.
Washington had anticipated the movement and conse
quent danger, and wrote to Greene, in whose department
it was, to dismantle Fort Washington, withdraw the gar
rison, and remove the stores to a more secure place. And
now we behold the fatal effects of divided counsel. Con
gress had thought it desirable and practicable to defend
the Highlands. Greene believed it possible to defend the
Fort against the British, and, unfortunately, Washington
yielded his better judgment to the importunities of this
favorite general. The investment in force took place ; the
troops were driven from height after height back on to
the garrison until it was no longer possible for Magaw to
get his troops to man the lines. The sight of the Ameri
can flag hauled down and the British flag waving m its
place, told Washington, who stood a spectator on the
opposite side of the river, of the surrender.1 The loss in
well-tried soldiers was two thousand eight hundred and
eighteen prisoners, besides the killed and wounded, and
•
1 Irving s Life of Washington, Vol. II., p. 454.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 27
in stores of all kinds, including artillery and arms of the
best quality, very great. Fatal blunder ! which Greene
afterwards sought to retrieve on many a field of battle.1
Fort Lee was abandoned, but so closeh- were the Ameri
cans pressed by the enemy that all of the artillery, except
two twelve-pounders, the tents, baggage and provisions,
were lost. The flight continued to the Hackcnsack River,
the passage of which, however, the enemy did not dispute.
From this point "Washington caused General Lee to be
apprised of the situation and ordered him to remove his
troops to the west side of the Hudson, and there await
further commands. To maintain his position on the Hackensack
was impossible, and, leaving three regiments to
guard the passes, Washington crossed the Passaic and es
tablished his headquarters at Newark. His army was
rapidly melting away by the expiration of enlistments. In
a few days he would have scarcely two thousand troops, and
the enemy, with a well-appointed force, was approaching.
Almost in despair, Washington sent off messengers to
the peripatetic Legislature of New Jersey, to the Gover
nor of Pennsylvania, and to Congress, calling earnestly for
help. To Lee, on whom he relied for prompt assistance,
he sent a peremptory order to march his troops at once to
join him. This order was disregarded. Week after week
passed, and Lee did not appear. It is now known that
that otficer thought Washington's star was setting, and
that by striking an independent blow he might be ap
pointed Commander-in-Chief. Lee esteemed himself a
better soldier than Washington ; he was in correspondence
with Gates and Colonel Reed, of Washington's staff, and
confidently counted on the support of the people and
1This fatal policy of permitting troops to be surrounded in untena
ble fortifications and captured by the enemy, never received any cen
sure from Congress. It was at a time when not a man could be spared.
The loss came near wrecking the fortunes of the colonists. The reader
will have opportunity to contrast this silence by Congress and the
people with the vituperative and shameful course pursued toward
another officer, who refused to be glorified by being captured at the
expense of his country.
28 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
Congress.1 He followed slowly in the rear of the enemy,
and had planned an attack on the British at Princeton,2
when, unluckily for himself, but luckily for the United
States, he was surprised at a country house and captured.
The capture of Lee placed General Sullivan in com
mand, and that officer now hastened the march of the
troops southward, in obedience to the orders of Washing
ton. These troops had been joined en route by the brigade
of St. Clair,3 who had come from the Northern Depart
ment. Washington and his little force retreated from
Newark to Brunswick, on the Raritan, where he hoped to
make a stand ; thence to Princeton, and thence to Tren
ton, which place he reached on the 2d of December, in a
condition that beggars description. The militia of N"ew
Jersey had refused to turn out; the disposition of the Penusylvanians
was so unreliable that soldiers had to be posted
at the fords to prevent the militia from returning home.
Those that remained faithful were without tents, shoes,
or blankets. The total loss to the Americans during this
campaign had been four thousand four hundred and thirty
in soldiers, including officers, and munitions of war and
1 Lee was a great favorite with the populace, and his experience as a
soldier in Europe gave him strong backing in Congress.
• Wilkinson's Memoirs, which contain a graphic description of the
capture of Lee. Greene evidently saw through the purpose of Lee,
for in a letter to Washington written during the suspense, he says
that he heard a report that Lee was at the heels of the enemy. "I
should think," he adds, " he had better keep on the flanks than the
rear, unless it were possible to concert an attack at the same instant
of time in front and rear. ... I think General Lee must bo confined
within the lines of some general plan, or else his operations will bo in
dependent of yours. His own troops, General St. Clair's, and the
militia, must form a respectable army "
2Letter from Baltimore announcing arrival of St. Clair at Headquar
ters. Force's American Archives, Fifth Series, Vol. Ill, p. 1419.
The soldiers of St. Clair were the only ones in the service during
this gloomy period, whose terms were about to expire, who could be
induced to re-enlist, and " they were permitted to visit their friends
and homes, as part of the terms on which they would re-engage." —
Letter of Washington to Congress, Dec. 24.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 29
stores of every kind, to such an extent that it was doubtful
if the loss could ever be repaired.
To his brother, Augustine, Washington wrote: "If
every nerve is not strained to recruit the army with all
possible expedition, I think the game is nearly up." And
he contemplated retreating beyond the Alleghanies. To
the President of Congress he wrote, on the 24th of Decem
ber : " That I should dwell on the subject of our distresses,
can not be more disagreeable to Congress than it is pain
ful to myself. The alarming situation to which our affairs
are reduced, impels me to the measure." And to Robert
Morris he said: "Bad as our prospects are, I should not
have the least doubt of success in the end, did not the late
treachery and defection of those who stood foremost in the
opposition, while fortune smiled upon us, make me fear
that many more would follow their example ; who, by
using their influence with some, and working upon the
fears of others, may extend the circle so as to take in
whole towns, counties ; nay, provinces. Of this we have
a recent instance in Jersey ; and I wish many parts of
Pennsylvania may not be ready to receive the yoke."
" Should it be true, as reported, that the American Gen
eral once wept, while he fled through the Jerseys, that will
not prove the want of personal fortitude. He is neither less, nor more than a man." l
Having been strengthened by the troops brought by St.
Clair from the North, those of Lee's command, and some
militia from Pennsylvania, Washington thought to strike
a blow at the enemy, who had gone into winter quarters,
by surprising different posts, and in this way revive the
drooping spirits of the Americans. He formed the bold
plan of crossing the Delaware on the night of Christmas
and attacking Colonel Rani's command at Trenton. The
account of this adventure, given by Wilkinson, who was a
participant, is the best ever written, and we shall follow it
in our brief memoir.
When Wilkinson joined the troops under General Wash1
Gordon, Vol. II, p. 359.
80 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
ington, he found General St. Clair near headquarters, and
resumed the station of Brigade- Major in his family, hut,
at General Gates's particular request, he obtained permis
sion to accompany him to Newtown, and finally as far as
Philadelphia. When he applied to General St. Clair for
leave, that officer observed that he should "have no objec
tion, if he did not think it interested his honor, at that
time, to remain with the brigade." Not understanding
the import of the remark, Wilkinson laid less stress upon
it than he ought to have done, and departed with Gates.
On the way to Philadelphia, Gates was much depressed,
censorious of Washington, and said he should propose a
new plan of campaign to Congress. That night he wrote
a letter to Washington before retiring, and handed it to
Wilkinson to be delivered. Early the next morning the
latter started to return to' headquarters, which he reached
about two o'clock. To his surprise, he discovered that the
troops and General Washington had moved. From Colo
nel Harrison, the General's secretary, who had been left
in charge of his papers, he received the necessary direc
tions, and proceeded in quest of the troops, ichose route was
easily traced, as there was a little snow on the ground, which
teas tinged here and there with blood from the feet of the men
who wore broken shoes. Hc got up with his brigade near
McConky's Ferry about dusk, and, inquiring for the Com
mander-in-Chief, was directed to his quarters, where he
found him alone, with his whip in his hand, prepared to
mount his horse.
"When I presented the letter of General Gates to him,"
says Wilkinson, "before receiving it, he exclaimed with
solemnity, 'AVhat a time is this to hand me letters ! ' I an
swered that I had been charged with it by General Gates.
'By General Gates! Where is he?' 'I left him this
morning in Philadelphia.' 'What was he doing there?'
' I understood him that he was on his way to Congress.'
He earnestly repeated, ' On his way to Congress ! ' then
broke the seal, and I made my bow and joined General
St. Clair on the bank of the river.
" Boats were in readiness, and the troops began to cross
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 31
about sunset, but the force of tho current, the sharpness
of the frost, the darkness of the night, the ice which made
during the operation, and a high wind, rendered the pas
sage of the river extremely difficult ; and but for the sten
torian lungs and extraordinary exertions of Colonel Knox,
it could not have been effected in season for the enter
prise." It was four o'clock before the troops were formed
and put in motion, at which time it began to hail and snow.
The troops moved in two divisions. The first, or right,1
led by Sullivan, which included the brigade of St. Clair,
was directed to follow the river road and enter the town
by Water street. The second, or left, led by Washington,
who was accompanied by Stirling, Greene, Mercer, and
Stephen, moved circuitously by the upper road to the
north of Trenton, for the purpose of making an attack
from the point of King's (now Greene) street. As this
column moved on the longer line, Sullivan's was to halt
for a few minutes at a cross-road leading to Howell's
Ferry, where he arrived about twilight. The attack of
the two columns was to be simultaneous.
While at the cross-road, it was discovered by Captain
John Glover, of the Marblehead regiment, that many of
the muskets were wet, and not in firing condition. The
communication was made to General Sullivan in presence
of General St. Clair and the officers of their suites. Sul
livan cast a look at St. Clair and observed, "What is to be
done?" who instantly replied, "You have nothing for it,
but to push on and charge." The march was commenced,
Colonel Stark in command of the advanced guard, the
troops attempting to clear their muskets as they moved on,
which occasioned a good deal of squibbing. Meanwhile,
an officer was dispatched to apprise the General of the
state of the army, who returned for answer by his aid-de
camp, Colonel Webb, to "advance and charge."
It was now broad day, and the storm beat violently in
the faces of the men. Washington, who rode by the side
of Captain Forest, near to the front of his column, as he
approached the village, inquired of an inhabitant, who was
1 Order of march given in Memoir of General Knox. Appendix.
32 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
chopping wood by the roadside, "Which way is the Hes
sian picket ? " "I do n't know," replied the citizen, waiv
ing an answer. "You may speak," said Captain Forest,
"for that is General Washington." The astonished man
raised his hands to heaven, and exclaimed, " God bless and
prosper you, sir; the picket is in that house, and the sen
try stands near the tree."1 Captain Washington received
an order to dislodge the picket, and Captain Forest to unlimber
the artillery, when the attack was made. Gen. St.
Clair responded on the front of Sullivan's column, forced
the enenvv's pickets and pressed into the town, the oth
ers pressing close behind. The enemy made a wild
and undirected fire from the windows of their quarters
and then attempted to form in the main street, but were
prevented by a discharge from the battery of Captain For
est, under the immediate orders of General Washington,
at the head of King's street. Pressed in front and on the
left, a troop of dragoons, with about five hundred infantry,
took to flight across the Assanpink, in the direction of
Bordentown, where Count Donop lay. The main body,
seeing their Commander, Colonel Rahl, fall, retired by their
right up the Assanpink, but were intercepted by Colonel
Hand's rifle corps and some Virginia troops, who had been
sent by Washington for that purpose, and compelled to
lay down their arms.
The loss of the Americans was one man frozen to death,
two killed, and four wounded ; that of the enemy, Colonel
Rahl, six other officers, and about forty privates killed ;
twenty-three officers and almost one thousand non-com
missioned officers and privates prisoners ; a thousand stand
of arms, six brass field-pieces, and four sta nds of colors. This
enterprise, so happily executed, reflected high honor on
General Washington, electrified the country, and inspired
friends in Europe with hope. If Washington's entire plan,
which included the crossing of a column, under General
Ewing, at Trenton Ferry, and another, under General Cadwallader,
from Bristol, had been executed, the troops that
1 Wilkinson's Memoirs, Vol. I, p. 129.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 33
escaped would have been captured before they could reach
Count Donop. But, as it was, the victory was a very im
portant one, as it stopped the stampede to the enemy, and
insured final success to the Revolution.
There was a sequel to this affair, which we shall now
proceed to relate. "Washington, who had recrosscd the
Delaware after his success, thinking it possible to capture
other posts of the enemy, again braved the perils of the icy
river, and stationed his troops at Trenton. But the enemy
had been driven into activity, and now approached him
with a superior force, under Lord Cornwallis. Washing
ton was caught in a cul-de-sac, with half-clad militia, only*
to oppose veteran troops. To make a safe retreat was im
practicable, and to give battle with his present force was
to invite certain defeat and the loss of the cause. In this
emergency, he ordered Generals Mifflin and Cadwallader
to join him with their forces, amounting to about three
thousand six hundred men. "He did it with reluct
ance, for it seemed like involving them in the common
danger; but the exigency of the case admitted of no al
ternative." 1 They joined him on the 1st of January.
The main body of the Americans took position on the
east side of the Assanpink. There was a narrow stone
bridge across it, where the water was very deep2—the
same bridge over which part of Raid's brigade had es
caped in the recent affair. He planted his artillery so as
to command the bridge and the fords. His advance-guard
was stationed at Five Mile run;- under Colonel Hand, of
the, famous rifle corps, and with him was our friend Cap
tain Forest, with his light battery, where the advance of
the enemy received its first check on the 2d of January,
on the road from Princeton. Colonel Hand retired leis
urely before the enemy, until Shabbakong creek was
reached, on the south side of which he made a stand in
the wood on both sides of the road. " In this position,
lie waited for the flank and advance-guard of the
1 Irvinj's Life of Washington, Vol- II„ p. 539. » Ibid.
3
34 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
enemy until they eamc within point-blank shot, and then
opened a deadly fire from ambush, which broke and
forced them back, in great confusion, on the main body,
closely pursued by the riflemen. The boldness of this
maneuver, menacing a general attack, induced the enemy
to form in order of battle, to bring up his artillery, and
open a battery, with which he scoured the wood for half
an hour before he entered it. This operation consumed
two hours, during which time the rifle corps took breath,
and were ready to renew the skirmish. The brigade of
General St. Clair, with two pieces of artillery, under Cap
tain Sargent,1 were assigned to the defense of the fords of
the Assanpink, on the right of the line."2 The enemy
rCconnoitered these fords, but, finding them guarded, did
not attempt them. Time had been gained, as Washington
desired, so that the day was far spent when the enemy
entered Trenton.
The Americans opened on the columns of the enemy
with a well directed fire from the battery stationed above
the bridge, and was presently answered by a counter bat
tery. The cannonade continued nearly half an hour,
during which the roar of musketry was mingled with that
of the artillery. The enemy kept his front well deployed
and supported, and finally succeeded in forcing the oppos
ing corps to retire by the bridge across the Assanpink.
After this, the enemy took post in front of the Americans,
at about one thousand yards distant, with the village of
Trenton and the Assanpink lying between. A cannonade
ensued between the two armies, with little effect,3 during
' which Lord Cornwallis deployed his columns and ex
tended his lines to the westward, on the heights above the
town, and there formed his camp for the night, against the
advice of Sir William Erskine, but to the great relief of
1 Afterward associated with St. Clair in the government of North
western Territory, as secretary.
* VillkinsoHt .1A moiVj.
* Washington to the President of Congress. —Sparks, Vol. IV., p.
259.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Cluir. 35
the Americans. " Our situation," wroteWashington to Con gress, '• was most critical."1 '" If there over was a crisis
in the affairs of the Revolution," says Wilkinson, "this
was the moment; thirty minutes would have sufficed to
bring the two armies into contact, and thirty more would have decided the combat " s in favor of the enemy. Wash
ington had been praying for nightfall and a cessation of
arms.
Immediately after dark," a council of war was con
vened at General St. Clair's quarters, south of the creek,
for General Washington had been driven out of his own
quarters by the enemy.3 The anxious Commander-in-Chief
made a brief statement to the council of the dangers be
fore them. If they kept their ground a battle was certain
in the morning, and defeat might result; a retreat down
the river road, the only route apparently open, would be
difficult and precarious, and would, by dispiriting the
Americans, lose all that had been gained by the victory
of Christmas; the destruction of the army might be fatal
to the country. What was best to be done?
Hereupon, one of the council made a suggestion so
happily solving the problem as to add in its brilliant exe
cution, to the well-deserved renown of Washington. It
was to turn the left of the enemy and march to the north.
" I have before observed," says Wilkinson, "that General
St. Clair had been charged with the guard of the fords of
the Assanpink, and in the course of the day, while ex
amining the ground to his right, he had fallen on the road
which led to the Quaker bridge. Whether from this cir
cumstance, or what other information, I will not presume
to say, it was this officer who, in council, suggested the
idea of marching by our right and turning the left of the
enemy. The practicability of the route was well under
stood by Colonel Reed, Adjutant-General, and the Com
mander-in-Chief, as soon as satisfied on this' point, adopted
1 Sparkts Writings of Washington, Vol. IV., p. 2-58.
* Memoirs, Vol. I., p. 138. . "Ibid, p. 140.
36 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
the proposition."1 It was the inspiration of true gen
ius.
In his own hrief narrative, St. Clair says: " The Gen
eral summoned a council of the general officers at my
quarters, and, after stating the difficulties in his way, the
probahility of defeat, and the consequence that would
necessarily result if it happened, desired advice. I had
the good fortune to suggest the idea of turning the left of
the enemy in the night, gaining a march upon him, and
proceeding with all possible expedition to Brunswick.
General Mercer immediately fell in with it, and very
forcibly pointed out its practicability and the advantages
that would necessarily result from it, and General Wash
ington highly approved it, nor was there one dissenting
voice in the council."
General "Washington saw more in this move than the
mere escape from the enemy. He might, by a fortunate
stroke withdraw General Howe from Trenton, and give
1 Wilkinson's Memoir.':, Vol. II., p. 140: Bancroft has called in ques
tion the fact that, at the council referred to St. (lair suggested the
movement which turned the left of the enemy, and enabled the
American army to escape to Princeton by the roundabout Quaker
road. He says: " St. Clair liked it [the movement] so well, that in
the failing memory of old age he took it to have been his own." But
St. Clair, whose truthfulness and modesty were prominent traits of
character, claimed it at the time it occurred, and he is confirmed by a
member of his staff, who was a participant in the events narrated.
Both were devoted friends and admirers of Washington, and Ban
croft can suggest no motive which would invalidate their testimony.
In this case, as in the case of Greene and others, he simply re
fuses to recognize that there was any genins or merit in any mind save
that of Washington. To exalt his character beyond the bounds and
capabilities of human nature, ho subjects himself to criticism, and de
feats the end he had in view. He says that Washington claimed the
measure as his own in tho letter to the President of Congress, written
at Pluckemin, 5 Jan'y, 1777, from which we have quoted. This asser
tion is not warranted by the language of that letter, which is merely
a general statement of the events, in which official acts only are re
ferred to. There is no mention of a council in it, and yet Bancroft
concedes there was a council held. For what purpose if not for con
sultation and advice? Hamilton was far wiser as well as more just
than Bancroft. In his euloginm on Greene he referred to a similar
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 37
some reputation to the American arms.1 St. Clair directed
the details of preparation.2 The more effectually to mask
the movement, the haggage had been sent at an earlier
hour to Burlington, the guards were ordered to be doubled,
and the fires to be kept up all night. Soon after midnight
the troops quietly withdrew by detachments, and, march
ing by the right, moved upon Princeton. St. Clair's bri
gade of New Hampshire, Connecticut, and Massachusetts
troops, with two six pounders, marched at the head of the
column, with which General Washington rode.3 Captain
Isa^.c Sherman, son of Roger Sherman, of Connecticut,
commanded St. Clair's advance guard. In the silence of
the night the thinly-clad troops moved along the rough
and devious way with uncertain steps4 but determined
claim to that we are considering, in the following language: " To at
tribute to him [Greene] a portion of the praise which is due as well to
theformation as to the execution of the plans that effected these important
ends, can be no derogation from that n-indom and magnanimity whirh kniu>
how to seleH and embrace counsels worthy of being pursued."—[See Hamil
ton's Works, Vol. 11.
"Meanwhile, Washington summoned his officers to council, at the
headquarters of St. Clair, his own being now in the hands of the enemy.
' What shall we do? Shall we retreat down the Delaware, on the
Jersey side, and cross it over against Philadelphia, or shall we remain
where we are, and try the chances of a battle?' Each course had its
advocates, when a voice was heard, saying, ' Better than either of these,
let us take the new road through the woods, and get in the enemy's
rear by a march upon Princeton, and, if possible, on Brunswick even.'
From whom did this hold suggestion come? St. Clair claimed it as
his; and why should the positive assertion of an honorable man be
lightly called in question ? But whose ever it was, it was the inspira
tion of true genins, aml was promptly accepted by all. —George Wash
ington Greene' s Life of General Nathaniel Greene, Vol. I., p. 532.
1 Washington to the President of Congress, Sparks, Vol. IV., p. 250.
* Bryant's Popular History United States, Chap. 21, p. 532.
* Wilkinson, as before quoted, p. 144.
*"The road was newly cut and rough with stubs too low to be seen
by starlight, hut high enough to catch and bruise the men's feet as
they marched—half shod feet, we must remember—and whose track,
a few days before, Wilkinson tells us, he had traced for miles by their
blood on the snow. The slow pace of the artillery compelled the
ranks to move slowly, and frequently to halt; and as they halted, 't'.vo
38 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
courage, regarding such hardship lightly when mcurred
for the cause of independence.
It was broad day before the British discovered that
their enemy had eluded them, and gone they knew not
whither. The morning was bright, serene, and extremeh
cold, with a hoar frost that bespangled every object, when
the Americans reached the junction if the Quaker and
main roads, about two miles from Princeton. Washing
ton had ordered General Mercer, with a detachment of
three hundred and fifty men, to continue i. ing Stony
Brook with his brigade until he should reach the main
road, where he was to destroy a bridge over which it
passed, and take post for the double purpose of intercept
ing fugitives from Princeton and covering the American
rear against Cornwallis from the direction of Trenton.
Meanwhile, the three regiments of the enemy, the Seven
teenth, Fortieth, and Fifty-fifth, which had spent the
night at Princeton, were preparing to join Cornwallis at
Trenton. The Seventeenth, under Colonel Mawhood, was
already on the march, and had crossed the bridge which
Mercer was approaching to destroy, when discovering the
head of the American column, and supposing it a light
detachment, he recrossed the bridge, purposing to cut
it off.
At this moment Mercer's corps emerged into view not
five hundred yards from the British line. The discovery
was mutual, and the respective corps then endeavored to
get possession of the high ground on their right. The
Americans reached the house and orchard of William
Clark, "but perceiving the British on the opposite side of
the height, and a worm fence between them, they pushed
through the orchard, and anticipated their antagonists by
or three men in each platoon would be seen standing, with their arms
supported, fast asleep.1' Then the order to move on would come; and
as the sleepers, rousing themselves, and pressed by the platoons from
behind, attempted to move, they would often strike against a stub and
fall." —Ufenf Gineral Nathaniel Greene.
(1) Slont a Howland.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 89
about forty paces." 1 The first fire was delivered by Mer
cer, which the enemy returned, and instantly charged with
the bayonet. The Americans, who were armed chiefly
with rifles, were thrown into confusion and fled in disor
der. Major Wilkinson, seeing that the Americans were
retiring in confusion by the house of Clark, spoke of it to
General St. Clair, who charged him not to mention the
circumstance, lest it should aft'ect his own troops. " The
time from the discharge of the first musket," says Wilkin
son, "until I perceived our troops retreating, did not ex
ceed five minutes, and I well recollect that thoemokofrom
the discharge of the two lines mingled as it rose, and went
up in one beautiful cloud." The enemy pursued the re
treating Americans as far as the brow of the declivity,
when, discovering the whole army instead of a detach
ment as was supposed, they baited and brought up their
artillerv. On hearing the first fire, General Washington
directed the Pennsylvania militia to support General Mer
cer, and, in person, led them on with two pieces of artillery.
Perceiving the militia in confusion, he galloped past them,
waving his hat and encouraging them to reform before the
enemy. Nothing daunted by the presence of a superior
force, Colonel Mawhood directed a company of infantry
to attempt Captain Moulder's battery,2 which had formed
to the right of Clark's house under direction of General
Washington, but they were repulsed with considerable
loss. The British displayed great intrepidity, but perceiv
ing the inspiring effects of the gallantry of the American
Commander-in-Chief, and realizing the hopelessness of the
contest, they retreated precipitately up the north side of
Stony Brook, leaving their artillery on the ground. Be
fore the fi/e had ceased at the first onset, Colonel Maw
hood, mounted on a brown pony, with a dozen infantry,
and a pair of beautiful spaniels playing before him, crossed
1 Wilkinson's Memoirs of My Own Times. Vol. I., p. 142.
2This company of artillery, from Philadelphia, was almost as much
distinguished in its line as the. troops of drasroons, and, on this day,
attracted the particular attention of General Washington. Wilkin
son* Memoirs. Vol. I., p. 143.
40 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
the line of direction of the other division so near that had
not the Americans been stationary, he must have been
captured. On observing the halt of his guard General St.
Clair directed Major Wilkinson to gallop forward and
order a charge, but it was too late, as Mawhood had
passed, yet the fire ot the guard knocked down two of the infantry. •
The Fifty-fifth British regiment did not reacli the vicinity
of Clark's in time to participate in the action, and perceiving
Mavhood and his Seventeenth in retreat followed closely by
Washington, they returned to Princeton, and joined the
Fortieth in quarters at the College. The two regiments af
terward drew out and formed in line on the brow of a rav
ine. In this position they were attacked by General St.
Clair, and after a sharp resistance were driven back to
the College again. They took possession of the buildings
and knocked out the windows, apparently for the purpose
of defending themselves at all hazards; but being saluted
in their quarters with artillery, thought better of it, rushed
out in a disorderly manner and made good their escape to
Brunswick. St. Clair had no cavalry to send in pursuit;
indeed, the entire cavalry in the American army consisted
of twenty-two gentlemen of Philadelphia, who had vol
unteered, and were then with Washington in another di
rection.
In killed, wounded, and prisoners, the British lost five
hundred men; upwards ot one hundred were left dead on
the field.1 The loss of the Americans was about thirty,
but, alas! it included the brave and able General Mercer,2
1 Washington's account. Sparks, Vol. IV., p. 2.";9
2Mercer, like St. Clair, was a Scotchman by birth, and educated as a
physician. IIo served in the French war under Braddock, became ac
quainted with Washington, and by him was persuaded to settle in Vir
ginia. He was thoroughly educated, and was a man ot brilliant parts.
The Revolution did not produce a more unselfish patriot, and his loss
was deeply felt. Congress voted a monument to his memory.1
(l)"On the night of the 1st of January, General Mercer, Colonel C. P.i.Mle, mid Doc
tor Cochran, spent the evening with General St. Clair. Fatigued with the duties of
tho day, I had lain down i:i the same apartment, and my attention was attracted by
the turn of their conversation, on the recent promotion of Captain William Wash ington, from a regiment of infantry to a majority of cavalry. General Mercer ex-
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 41
who fell mortally wounded in the first attack at Clark's,
Colonels Haslet and Porter, Major Morris, and Captain
William Shippen.
After St. Clair had dispersed the enemy from Princeton
"College, and most of the other troops had come up, a new
difficulty arose; the enemy were coming on rapidly, their
advance heing already warmly engaged with the American
rear-guard, under Brigadier-General Potter, at Stony
Brook, and General Washington was missing. There was
great consternation at the moment, which was dispelled
hy his sudden reappearance. It seems that when he joined
in pursuit of Mawhood, his impetuosity carried him fur
ther than was prudent. Having returned from his fine
fox chase, he was confronted with the necessity of again
baffling the superior army under Cornwallis, now in hot
pursuit. What was to be done?1 The design of proceed
1 " Thus far, Washington's bold strategy had succeeded. The road
to Brunswick was open. Lee was there; other prisoners w.-ro there;
abundant stores and supplies were there; and there, too, was the mili
tary chest, with seventy thousand pounds in hard money. To seize these
had formed a part of Washington's original plan ; and as he halted with
pressed his disapprobation of the measure; at which the gentlemen appeared sur
prised, as it was the reward of acknowledged gallantry ; and Mercer, in explanation,
observed; 'We are not engaged in a war of ambition; if it hail been so, I sheuld
never have accepted a commission under u man whe hud not seen a day's service
(alluding to Patrick Henry); wo serve, not for ourselves, but for our country, and
every man sheuld be content to fill the place in which he can be most useful. I
know Washington to be a good captain of infantry, but I know not what sort of a
major of herse he may make; and I have f.cen good Captains make indifferent Majors.
For my own part, my views in this contest are confined to a single object, that
is, the success of the cause, ami Clod can witness hew cheerfully I would lay down
my life to secure it.1 The compact was sealed, and within thirty-six heurs lie re
ceived his mortal wounds fro.n the bayonets of the enemy. •' I have heard the following interesting incident of his life: He served in the earn -
paign of 17V), with General Braddock, and was wounded through the* sheulder In the
unfortunate action near Fort du Quesne; unable to retreat, he lay down under cover
of a large fallen tree, and in the pursuit an Indian leaped upon his covert immedi
ately over him, and. after looking about a few seconds for the direction of the fugi
tives, he sprang off witheut observing the wounded man whe lay at his feet. So
soon as the Indians hail killed the wounded, scalped the dead, rifled the burgage,
and cleared the field, the unfortunate Mercer, finding himself exceedingly faint and
thirsty from loss of blood, crawled to an adjacent brook, and, after drinking plenti
fully, found himself so much refreshed that he was able to walk, and commenced
his return by the road the array had advanced; but, being witheut subsistence, and
more than an hundred miles from any Christian settlement, hi; expected to die of
famine, when he observed a rattle-snake on his path, which he killed and contrived
to skin, and. throwing it over his sound sheulder, he subsisted on it, as the claims
of nature urged, until he reached Fort Cumberland."— Wilkinson.
42 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
ing to Brunswick was necessarily abandoned ; it was eight
een miles distant, and the troops were very much fatigued,
and, as the principal deposit of the enemy's military stores
was at that place, they had certainly not been left un
guarded; resistance was, therefore, to be expected, which"
would require some time to overcome, and here was CornWallis
pushing at the rear. Again St. Clair's quick per
ception and information proved useful to Washington. In
passing to the northward, in the beginning of the cam
paign, St. Clair's route lay through Morristown, at the
time when a large party of the enemy were foraging the
lower country, and had advanced as far up as Springfield,
at the foot of the range of mountains, known by the name
of the Short Hills, where General Williamson was oppos
ing them with the militia. St. Clair set off on the instant
to join him, but before he reached him the enemy had re
tired ; but he had thereby an opportunity to see some part
of those hills which were afterwards of so great use to
General Washington, and from which Sir William Howe
never could decoy him, and dared not to attempt to drive
him. St. Clair described Morristown and its vicinity to
General Washington as a place where the army could bo
cantoned. He quickly decided, and the army had orders to
take the route towards that place, and St. Clair was left
with a rear-guard to destroy the bridges, the last of which
was barely effected when the enemy appeared and fired
upon the Americans.1
several of his general officers at the forks in the Kingston road, while
.liis victorious but weary troops were filing off toward Itocky Hill, there
was a general cry, ' 0 that wo had five hundred fresh men to beat up
their quarters at Brunswick.' ' It would put an end to the war,' said
Washington, sadly, in a letter to the President of Congress. But the
five hundred fresh men were not there, and in their stead was an army
worn down by hunger and fatigue." —Life of Greene.
1 It is stated in the Life of Greene, that that officer hod already moved
with the advance towards Morristown, before this decision. Wilkinson
says the movement was made on the advice of General St. Clair (see
Memoirs, Vol. I., p. 140), but, whether by advice of Greene or St. Clair,
the establishment of winter quarters at Morristown proved very for
tunate.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 43
This final stroke was an important one, as it compelled
the withdrawal of the British troops to Nu*v Brunswick
and Amhoy, where, in the words of Hamilton, they pre
sented "the extraordinary spectacle of a powerful army,
straitened within narrow limits hy the phantom of a mil
itary force, and never permitted to transgress those limits
with impunity."1
If those recruits had heen for the war, instead of six
months, how different would have been the results of the
next campaign.
The genius of "Washington never shone so resplendent
a3 during this critical period. Cabals were checked ; Con
gress at last risked something of their powers in the hands
of this General, in order that Liberty might not perish
from the earth ; the militia flocked once more to his stand
ard, and all Europe styled him the American Fabius.
And one of his most trusted counselors and able lieu
tenants throughout this period was Arthur St. Clair.2 In
recognition of his distinguished services, he was, on the 19th
1-'The bold, judicious, and unexpected attacks made at Trenton and
Princeton by an enemy believed to be vanquished, had an influence
on tiie fate of tlie war much more extensive in its consequences thani
from a mere estimate of tlie killed and taken, would bo supposed.
They saved Philadelphia for the present winter; they recovered the
State of Jersey; and, which was of still more importance, they re
vived the drooping spirits of America, and gave a sensible impulse to
the recruiting service throughout the United States."—Marshall, Vol. 1 1.,
p. 512. 'The Surprise of Trenton was for America what Thermopylae was
for Greece. This surprise is one of the best planned and boldest exe
cuted military movements of our century. It was, however, excelled
by the Attempt upon Princeton, and both events are sufficient to elerate
a General to the temple of immortality, especially when, as in this
case, he fights for the good of his country." —Militdrische urui Vermise/ile
SehT'l'tcn ion IJeinrich, Dietrich von Billow, p. 52.
1 II is right to share in the glory of Trenton was generally recog
nized at the time. On the 30th December, James Wilson, then at
Bahimore, where Congress was sitting, wrote to him in the following
words: " With peculiar pleasure I congratulate you on the victory at
Trenton. 1 hope the tile is now turning, and will run high in out
IfcTor.'" —Sea letter p. 379.
44 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
of February, commissioned as a Major-General.1 During
the arduous and hazardous days of this winter, Washing
ton formed that attachment for St. Clair which endured,
despite misrepresentations and calumny, as long as he
lived. Nothing could ever impair his strong- faith in the
Scotch republican. "When Colonel Reed resigned as Ad
jutant-General in March, Washington detailed St. Clair
to till that important position until it should be determined
whether Colonel Timothy Pickering, to whom the place
had been offered, would accept. St. Clair discharged the
duties of that office until ordered by Congress to proceed
to the Northern Department.
1There were five Major-Generals appointed at this time, in the order
named: Stirling, Mifflin, St. Clair, Stephen, and Lincoln. These had
been faithful lieutenants of Washington during the dark days when
panic had seized upon many minds, and cabals were formed to de
stroy the Commander-in-Chief. Arnold was senior Brigadier, and in
line of promotion. He threatened retirement from the army. Wash
ington, who admired his rash bravery, attempted to soothe his irritated
feelings, espoused his cause in Congress, and shortly succeeded in ob
taining for him a Major-General's commission. It was proposed to
cure the seeming injustice by committing another, viz: by adopting. a
resolution placing Arnold superior to the four Major-Generals pro
moted from the Continental line. St. Clair protested against this, and
pointed out to Congress the absurdity of placing Stilling, Mifflin, him
self, and Stephen under Arnold, and leaving Arnold to be commanded
by Lincoln, the junior of the five, who was promoted from the militia!
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 45
cnAPTER In.
17T7—St. Clair, Promoted to b;: Major-General, Ordered to an Im
portant Command in the Northern Department—Evacuation op
Forts Ticonheroga and Independence—It Results in the SurKKNKER
OF BlRUOYNE AND THE TlilUMPH Of THK AMERICAN CaUSE.
An imprudent letter from Schuyler to Congress, in mid
winter, eclipsed for a season the fortunes of that able and
patriotic officer, and advanced correspondingly those of
Gates. On the 25th of March, the latter was directed by
President Hancock to repair to Ticonderoga immediately
and take command of the army stationed in that depart
ment. Gates proceeded at once to Albany, where he
halted, and began to call for reinforcements. He was
courteously invited to make his home at the Schuyler
mansion, but pleading the pressure of business, requiring
his constant presence in the village, he declined. Mean
while Wilkinson, whom he- had persuaded to leave Wash
ington's headquarters and join him, was at Ticonderoga,
making reports on the situation there and suggestions as
to the requirements of the garrison. As this deeply con
cerns our story, we shall go over the ground thoroughly.
We have seen how, after the retreat from Canada, Crown
Point had been abandoned as untenable because of its
ruinous state, and the army located at Ticonderoga, which
then became the frontier fortress. There was a conflict
of opinion as to the wisdom of this change, but after it
was done, attention was turned exclusively to the task of
making Ticonderoga an effective barrier against the enemy.
It was expected that Carleton would follow up the advan
tages already secured, and push on southward. To pre
vent, this, work was begun on the old French lines at
Ticonderoga, and a fleet was formed, over which Arnold
was placed in command. In a long letter of the 24th
July, 1776, to General Washington, General Schuyler ar
gues the strength of Ticonderoga, and the impossibility of
46 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
the enemy to pass the strong camp proposed for the east
side of Lake Champlain,and penetrate to Skenosborough.
" Can they drive us out of the strong camp on the east
side?" he asks. "I think not. I think it impossible for
twenty thousand men to do it, ever so well provided, if the camp
consists of less than even a quarter of that number, indifferently furnished, such is the natural strength of the ground." l The
sequel will show the value of this opinion, and that when
Sehuyler was put to the test he abandoned it, but it had
the effect, with others of similar import, to mislead Wash
ington and the general public as to the real strength of the
American position. Schuyler, however, did not contem
plate a less force than ten thousand men, besides the fleet,
to resist any invasion from Canada,
In September, 1770, there were stationed at Tieonderoga
and the encampment on the east side, over twelve thou
sand effective men,3 and considerable of a navy rode on
the waters, manned by five hundred hardy sailors. "Within
a month, the navy was either captured or destn^-ed,3 and
Arnold then, in a letter to General Schuyler, urged that
eight or ten thousand militia be sent immediately to their
assistance.* Thus, in October, 17 70, it was the opinion of
1 The Italies are ours, but the weight to be accorded to this opinion
will he determined when the fact is stated that the fort which was
erected would accommodate scarcely twelve handled men, and that
there was an inadequate supply of water for a beleagured force.
2Letter from Mount Independence, Sept. 7. —Force's American Ar
chives, Fifth Series, Vol. I., p. 225.
2Yon must have heard that a few days ago we had a fine fleet
and tolerable good army, hut General Arnold, our evil genins of
the North, has, with a good deal of industry, got us clear of all our
fine fleet, only five of the most indifferent of them, one row galley, ex
cepted; and he has managed his point so well with the old man, the
General [Oates] that he has got his thanks for his good service. . . .
Had we our fleet here, we would give ourselves but little concern about
the enemy."—General Wm. Maxwell to Goernnr Livingston, Oct. 20.
*" It is the opinion of Generals Gates and St. Clair that eight or ten
thousand militia should he immediately sent to our assistance if they
can be spared from below."—Force'» American Archives, Fifth Series; Vol
II., p. 1080.
Life awl Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 47
the leading officers, that a force of twenty tuousand men
was requisite to effectually resist the British.
It is interesting to note, in this connection, the view
"Washington held, derived from the uncertain light shed
by the correspondence of officers,1 and the reports of com
mittees. On the 22d of October, he wrote to Schuyler :
" I have been informed that Ticonderoga, properly garri
soned and supplied with provisions and ammunition, is al
most impregnable, even at a season of the year when an
army can lay before it with the greatest convenience; if
s~, instead of calling up a number of useless hands and
mouths (for such I deem militia in general), I would ad
vise a collection of as much provision as could possibly be
got together, which, if sufficient for nine thousand effective
men, of which your army consisted by General Arnold's let
ter, I should imagine you could keep Burgoyne and Carleton
at bay till the rigor of the season would oblige them
to raise the siege, not only for want of conveniences to lay
in field, but for the fear the freezing lake should make
their return impracticable in case of accident. I would
recommend the removal of carriages and draft cattle of all
kinds from the coun.try adjacent, that if they should at
tempt to slip by Ticonderoga by any other route and come
down upon the settlements, that plan should be rendered
abortive for want of means of conveyance for their bag
gage and stores. I am unacquainted with the extent of your
icorks, and, consequently, of the number of men neceisary to
man them. If your present numbers [stated by Arnold to
1 It may be remarked, with certainty, that the exnggeratod view held
by Washington was not derivable from any thing communicated by
General St. Clair. The sources of information have been indicated in
the text and notes above. They were accessible also to the Committee
of Secret Correspondence, who wrote to .Silas Deane, on the 1st instant,
in these cheerful words: ''Our Northern army is strong, well in
trenched in an advantageous post, at Ticonderoga, which can only be
taken from tliem by storm, as it can not be approached in a regular
manner, on account of the situation. We are also formidable on the
lakes, in galleys, boats, etc., under command of your friend, Arnold,
and that army is better provided than the other, so that we do not
seem to apprehend any danger in that quarter at present."
48 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
be nine thousand] should be insufficient for that purpose, I
would, then, by all means, advise your making up the de
ficiency out of the best-regulated militia that could begot.
Some might, likewise, be useful in bringing up supplies
and fill the places of men who would render more service
with arms in their hands. You will always be kind enough
to bear in mind that I am giving my opinion, not issuing
my orders."
On the 26th October, upon receipt of Washington's let
ter, Schuyler was less confident than in the preceding July,
when he defied twenty thousand men to carry the posts on
the lake. He wrote to Washington, from Saratoga: "I
am in great hopes General Carleton will not be able to
dislodge our army from Ticonderoga : but, should such an
event unfortunately take place, such measures will be
taken as I think will certainly prevent them from pene
trating into the country on this side of the lake."1 The
militia were called in, and by the 17th of November the
troops guarding Ticonderoga and Mount Independence
numbered about twelve thousand. This was the force
thought to be necessary then, by all of the leading officers,
to man the works. Within nine months we shall behold
Schuyler and others expressing surprise that these same
works could not be successfully defended by twenty-five
hundred Continental soldiers!
The enemy, fortunately, retired into winter-quarters. A
large part of the American troops were dismissed, twentyfive
hundred only being left at Ticonderoga, under com
mand of Colonel Anthony Wayne. These were soon
reduced, by sickness, to seventeen hundred.* On the
20th of November, 1776, agreeably to the report of
the Military Committee,3 Congress directed that a fort be
1 Force's American Archives, Fifth Series, Vol. II., p. 1257.
2December 11th. Letter of General Schuyler to Pierre Van Cortlandt,
8 Resolved, That it is the opinion of this Committee, that a fort be
constructed on Mount Independence that the navigation of the lake
near that place should be obstructed by caissons, to bo sunk in the
water at small distances from one another, and joined together by
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 49
constructed on Mount Independence, and the navigation
of the lake obstructed. In December, following, we find
President Hancock writing to the States of Massachusetts,
New Hampshire, and Connecticut for four thousand five
hundred troops, to take the places of those whose terms
were about to expire.1 They were informed that advices
from General Schuyler indicated that there was extreme
danger the enemy would attempt to take Ticondcroga
when the lake should be frozen so as to be capable of bear
ing horses. It was already Christmas Eve when the ex
press was dispatched, and as weeks must elapse before the
Governors could act, or the obstructions be completed, an
extraordinary share of responsibility must have been put
upon Providence.
Meanwhile, the condition of the handful of troops who
kept watch during the winter months, and who were ex
pected to perfect the fortifications, was most deplorable.
They were "scarcely able to bear the fatigue of being a
few minutes on parade." 2 " The wretched condition they
are now in, for want of almost every necessary conveni
ence of life, except flour and bad beef, is shocking to hu
manity, and beggars all description. "Wo have neither
beds nor bedding for our sick to lay on or under,
other than their own clothing ; no medicine or regimen
string pieces, so as, at the same time, to serve for a bridge between the
fortifications on the east and west sides ; that, to prevent the enemy
from drawing their small craft overland beyond Three-Mile Point into
Lake George, the passage of that lake be also obstructed, in like man
ner, by caissons from island to island in the Narrows, if practicable, or
by floating batteries; that Fort Stanwix be strengthened, and other
fortifications be made at proper places near the Mohawk River; and
that the commanding officer of the Northern army execute these
works this winter; and that the Commanding Officers of Artillery,
Chief Engineer, Quartermaster-General, and Commissary-General pro
vide and perform whatever things in their respective departments are
necessary, or may contribute to the accomplishment thereof. —Jonrnah
of Congress.
1Ibid, December 24th.
1 Richard Varick, to the President of Congress.
4
50 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
suitable for them ; the dead and dying laying mingled
together in our hospital, or rather house of carnage, is no uncommon sight." l
And even when the spring days had come, and the buds
of the maple and the birch were swelling, the misery of
the poor garrison engaged the attention of the brave
Wayne. He sought to move the people of Massachusetts
Bay to send relief, by pointing out danger ahead. "The
enemy," wrote he to the Council of that State, " will be
but too soon informed of the debilitated state of this gar
rison, which at present does not consist of more than
twelve hundred men, sick and well, officers included, four
hundred of which are militia from Berkshire and Hamp
shire in your State, whose time expires in ten days." 2 Two
weeks later his vigilance had discovered the enemy in
strong force near Gillilands, where he had sent for prov
ender, and in communicating this to General Schuyler, he
adds in homely but effective language : "I can't account
for the happiness of the Eastern Slates with respect to
this post on any other principle but the generally received
notion that no attack will be made here."3
In this emergency Schuyler did every thing possible for
an officer in his position to do. He appealed to the New
England States, to the Albany Council, and to Congress.
It was in the midst of all this misery that he wrote the
imprudent letter before referred to. He followed it to
Congress, and Gates succeeded him in command. By the
time Wilkinson arrived [May 13, 1777], Wayne had gone,
and another officer was in charge. Every thing was found
to be in an unsatisfactory condition. On the 16th, he re1
Wayne, to the Pennsylvania Council of Safety.
Colonel Joseph Wood, writing, on the same day [December 4th], to
the Council, said that, although requisition had been made for thirteen
thousand men, only nine hundred pairs of shoes had been supplied,
and that one-third, at 1east, of the poor wretches were bare- footed, and in
this condition obliged to do duty. "This is shocking to humanity,"
he added; "nay, it can not be viewed in any m lder light than black
murder."
2 Massachusetts Archives, Vol. CXCVI., p. 324.
•April 14th.— Massachusetts Archives, Vol. CXCVI., p. 419.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 51
ported to General Gates that the presence of a disciplining
General was greatly needed; that several of the regiments
were in detachments and needed to be incorporated; that
Major Stevens was praying for reinforcements of artiller
ists; that there was a general cry for clothing; that the
shirts in store were too mean to be worn, and had been
refused by the soldiery; that there was a total want of
iron proper for mounting artillery, and a great demand
for arms and accouterments ; that the muskets which had
lately arrived from Albany were so flimsily repaired as
not to bear the transportation, and were in worse condi
tion than when they were sent away; that the poor re
mains of the American fleet were in a most contemptible
situation —without order, without regularity, almost void
of naval stores, badly manned and miserably officered ; and
that if paper were supplied, flxed ammunition might be
prepared soon.
On the 22d he wrote in similar strain : " I wish to
Heaven, either yourself or General St. Clair was here for
a few days. Colonel Kosciusko1 is timidly modest; Bald
win is inclosing the lines on a plan of his own;2 General
has arrived. He is a very inefficient officer, though
somewhat more determined than . We are now about
three thousand strong." His next communication is so
important as to justify reproducing almost entire:
"Ticondeuoca, May 26, 1777.
"My Dear General:—I now inclose you a general return of this
garrison, but can not tell whether it corresponds with the last, as I
tent tliat off in such a hurry as not to reserve a copy. . . . Since
General 's arrival on Tuesday last, we have brought nil the Conti
nental troops, except Long's regiment, to this side of t lie Lake, and
1 The gallant Pole, Tliaddeus Koscinsko, whose romantic history is
familiar to every American. He served with distinction as Colonel of
Engineers.
* Lieutenant-Colonel J. Baldwin, First Engineer, had charge of the
works in the west, or Tieonderoga side, and Lieutenant-Colonel M.
Christopher Pelissier on the east, or Mount Independence side. This
last site had been selected on the recommendation of Colonel John
Trumbull, Deputy Adjutant-General of the Northern Department, by
appointment of General Gates.
52 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
have posted the militia on the mount, brigaded under Colonel Long, a
genteel, amiable man. The troops on this side are formed under
Brigadiers and P . The stay of the militia is quite discre
tionary with the general, as they are turned out in this emergency
without any limited term of duration, though they begin already to
complain. You will find in these returns a very treacherous proportion
of officers, and that several are furloughed in the original return;
frauds which your or General St. Clair's presence is necessary to correct.
"Colonel Hay is an active officer, of more judgment than any one
I know in this garrison. About one hundred and twenty of the men
returned on command are under his direction, and are, I believe, ad
vantageously employed; the residue are under Colonel Baldwin, and
on board the fleet, where I think economy is much needed; one
whole company of carpenters are constantly employed in forming a
kind of friezed abatis, on the exterior of the glacis of the French lines.
The works are constructed on the plan laid down by Colonel Baldwin ;
the redoubt at those lines goes on finely ; it is formed by certain lines
beginning at the east end of the curtain on which the three north
embrasures are opened, and closing at the south sally-port. I believe
my details have made more invalids than real disease, the complaints
of many being very trivial; however, as I have no authority to obviate
this subterfuge, they will continue to avail themselves of it. The
muster-master is much wanted; he can not arrive too soon. The
artificers, and a number of workmen, are at present without arms, and
as there is in use and in store a great proportion of bad ones, I think
there apoears an evident necessity of moving the armory to this
place immediately.
" My General is acquainted with the various precautions preparatory
to successful defense; he knows the subject to be too complex for the
comprehension of men of mean abilities, no education, and little ex
perience ; what then must be the fate of this garrison under its present
command? I give you my honor, at this moment there is no disposi
tion of defense made in case of an attack, or even alarm posts assigned ;
I shall endeavor to have the latter consideration settled this day.
Providence yesterday exposed one point of our weakness, by ordering
a gale of wind, which carried away and broke to pieces the boom,
bridge, and every appendage thereof. . . .
"A scout has this moment arrived, who was yesterday chased near
the Four Brothers, by four of the enemy's boats. He observed lying
at that place a schooner, a pettiauger, and six or seven bateaux. I
suppose they are taking off the wheat and stock which we have
neglected to secure. . . .
" I have the honor to be, etc.,
"Ja. AVh.einsos.
"Hon. Major-Gexeral Gates."
Before the date of this letter the dignity of Congress
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 53
had been vindicated, and its wrath appeased, in re General
Schuyler's alleged disrespectful letter, and that officer,
without a word of explanation to General Gates, was
restored to the command of the Northern Department.
He arrived at Albany on the 3d of June, and on the fol
lowing day received from General Gates a statement of
the condition of affairs at Ticonderoga. That statement
was discouraging in the last degree. The garrison w-as
inadequate, and no prospect of speedy reinforcement; in
stead of six companies of artillerists as required, there
were only two; the roads had been so bad as to prevent
the transportation of stores; the enemy were approaching,
and if a seige were entered on, the garrisons would be
poorly provided. He had sent this information by ex
presses to the committees of the New England States, and
also to General Washington. The good people of those
States seemed to rest supine, and apparently nothing but
a disaster could rouse them. The Committee of Safety
of New Hampshire by the 10th May had furnished onehalf
of the quota of that State, and these were very illclothed.
There was neither cloth nor arms in the State.1
And on the 30th of May, Gates notified the Massachusetts
Council3 that the one thousand five hundred militia
ordered from Hampshire county were not yet one-third
arrived; and a scout to Split Rock showed the enemy in
considerable force.
On the 5th, General Schuyler ordered General St. Clair
to repair to Ticonderoga and take the command. The
latter reached that post on the 12th June3 where he found
a small garrison, badly armed, worse clad, and without
1 Historical Records of Xctc Hampshire.
* Massachusetts Archives.
»"On the 12th, St. Clair, the best of the Brigadiers in the North,
reached Ticonderoga." Bancroft, Vol. IX., p. 361. Of course " Briga
diers" is a misprint for Major-Generals, us Bancroft had already noted
the promotion.
* We shall give here a description of the situation, in St. Clair's own
words, but after quoting this apt and just remark by Bancroft : " Gates,
54 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
It will bo well for the reader to bear in mind the date?
and all of the facts above set forth as to the condition of
Ticonderoga and Mount Independence, at this stage, as
we shall have occasion hereafter to recur to them, and to
pass judgment on able statesmen, and wise and impartial
historians with the aid of the light they afford. We shall
see to whom the word " unfortunate " (a favorite with those
who clothe the products of the imagination rather than
truth, in rhetorical phrase), is justly applicable.
When St. Clair received his instructions from Congress,
he was informed that it was believed the movement of the
enemy toward Ticonderoga was merely a feint, and that
their undoubted plan of campaign was for General Burgoyne
to join Lord Howe at New York. General Gates
wrote to General Poor, "that he had the strongest assur
ances from Congress that the King's troops were all or
dered round to New York," and that the intelligence he
had from a spy " corroborated the sentiment of Congress."
Washington was greatly perplexed, but inclined to the
belief that the movement of the British in force would be
by New York. The doubt created by the very recent
movements of the enemy was sufficient to put St. Clair on
the alert, and he set to work with characteristic energy to
complete the defenses on the plan of Congress. The task
was an almost hopeless one. Without men and without
means, what was it possible for one man to do ? He knew
that the people were misinformed as to the strength of the
who had the good luck to he relieved just before inevitable mishaps,
charged St. Clair to 'call lustily for aid of all kinds, for no General
ever lost by surplus numbers, or over preparation ; ' and he then re
paired to Philadelphia to secure his reinstatement." "Had every
man I had," said St. Clair, " been disposed of in single file on the dif
ferent works and along the lines of defense, they would have been
scarcely within the reach of each other's voices; but Congress had
been persuaded that the enemy would make no attempt in that quar
ter, and such a number of men only as were.judged to be sufficient for
completing the works that had been projected, were assigned to me.
Those two thousand half armed and ill equipped every way. I found
arranged into many regiments, with their lull complement of officers,
and three brigadiers." Appendix to St. Ctair'j Narrative.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 65
fortress of Ticonderoga, and that they expected it to suc
cessfully resist any attack of the enemy. He also knew
that he was there as a sacrifice. Bravest and hest of sol
diers, who, conscious of adverse fate in store for him, goes
manfully forward in the discharge of his duty ! It was on
account of a clear recognition of the virtues—more felt
than seen—of this man, that I consented to write this me
moir :
" : where desert does live,
There will I plant my wonder, and there give
My best endeavors to build up his glory,
That truly merits! "
On the 18th of June, to his friend, James Wilson,1 who
was then a member of the Continental Congress, St. Clair
described the dangers surrounding him and the inadequate
means for successful defense. He said that, instead of the
works having been improved and strengthened in the win
ter, as promised, they were in worse condition than when
he had last seen them ; they required ten thousand men to
defend them, and he had not more than two thousand two
hundred;1 that if the militia were called in, their provis
ions would be exhausted in two weeks; that it was a dis
agreeable position, for a man to be placed in, that of being
called on to defend works with a force greatly inadequate,
and a retreat apparently impossible ; that it was hard, with
the little information they had, to form an opinion of the
enemy's designs, but it was certain General Burgoyne had
returned from England for an active campaign, and if he
did not take his troops around to General Howe, as sup
posed, he would move on Ticonderoga; and that it was
his purpose, after a resistance on the west side, to move
liis men to Mount Independence, and there make a stand.
1 St. CLir MS. On the 2"iih he wrote, in pretty much the same
strain, to John Hancock, President of Congress.
2 The preceding fall, Gates, who then had thirteen thousand effective
men, called for eight or ten thousand additional troops. General liurgoyne
afterward, on occasion of the inquiry into his conduct by the
House of Commons, said that the works at Ticonderoga were so exten
sive us to require Iwclce thousand men to defend them.
56 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
He closed his letter in these words : " My dear friend, if
you should not hear from me again, which may prohahly
be the case, remember that I have given you this account
of our situation, and do not suffer my reputation to be
murdered, after having been sacrificed myself."
St. Clair, nevertheless, pushed the work with all possi
ble dispatch, and in a few days affairs assumed a more for
midable, if not more encouraging aspect. The repairs on
the old French lines were put into as good shape as prac
ticable ; the boom reconstructed, and the abatis and fort
on Mount Independence completed. The American de
fensive works, on the 1st of July, were the following:
On a rough angle of land, covered with rocks and sur
rounded on three sides by water, on the western shore, a
few miles northward from the commencement of the gut
by which the waters of Lake George are conveyed to Lake
Champlain, was situated the fortress of Ticonderoga. A
part of the fourth side was covered by a deep morass, and
a part, that to the north-west, by intrenchments known as
the old French lines. The Americans had strengthened
these lines with additional works, and a block-house. Be
tween the lines and the fort, were also two block-houses,
and on the point of the promontory was a strong redoubt
of earth and stone—"Grenadiers' Battery"—which com
manded the narrow part of the lake, and covered the
bridge that communicated with Mount Independence, on
the east side. This bridge of communication, was sup
ported by twenty-two sunken piers of large timber, at
nearly equal distances, between which were separate floats
fifty feet long and twelve feet wide, strongly fastened to
gether by chains and rivets, and also fastened to the sunken
piers. Before this bridge was a boom—the boom on the
strength and importance of which so much stress was laid
by Congress and General Schuyler—made of very large
pieces of timber, fastened together by riveted bolts and
doubled chains, made of iron one inch and a half square.1
Upon the flat summit of the high and circular hill on the
1 Burgoyne's report to the House of Commons. Appendix XXX.
"X
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 57
east side of the narrows, where East Creek enters, called
Mount Independence, was a star fort, made of pickets, and
well supplied with artillery, within which were extensive
barracks. The foot of the hill, on the side that projects
into the lake, was intrenched, and had a strong abatis
close to the water. This intrenchment was lined with
heavy artillery, pointed down the lake, flanking the water
battery above described, and sustained by another battery
about half way up the hill. It was to the completion of
these works St. Clair's labors were chiefly directed in the
brief time he had. " The lake here is quite narrow, and,
sweeping in serpentine curves around the two points, it
flows northward on the left, and expands gradually into a
sheet of water several miles wide."1 At the entrance of
Lake George was situated the hospital, protected by a
block-house. At the carrying place, where saw-mills were
situated, Avas a military post, guarded by a block-house
upon the eminence above the mills. From this post to the
old French lines the distance was about a mile and a half.
A post had been established on an eminence, called Mount
Hope, north of the main works, and about a half mile in
advance of the old French lines.
Tbe fortifications were formidable, and if the Americans
had bad twelve thousand men instead of two thousand to
man them, or if the enterprising Burgoyne had followed
the precedents set by both French and British, in other
days, and made a direct attack on the lines, the result
might have been all that the most ardent patriot hoped
for. The sequel will show the points of weakness in the
American plan of defense, and the responsibility therefor.
Soon after reaching Ticonderoga, St. Clair was visited
by General Schuyler, and, together, they concerted means
for rousing the New England States to a just appreciation
of the dangers surrounding that post. But it is evident
that Schuyler shared with others to the southward the
view that the Canadian troops would sail down the St.
Lawrence for New York to co-operate with Lord Howe,
1 Lossing's Pictorial Field-Book of the Revolution, p. 131.
58 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
and that the movement toward the Hudson was only a
diversion. Or, it might he, that the main body of the
British would march from St. John's towards the Con
necticut river and make an attempt on the Eastern States,
a maneuver which, he said, if successful, would be attended
with much honor to General Burgoyne. " I am the more
confirmed in this conjecture, as the enemy can not be ig
norant how very difficult, if not impossible, it will be for
them to penetrate to Albany, unless, in losing Ticonderoga,
we should lose not only all our cannon, but most of the
army designed for this department."
For the most part, Schuyler's letters to Washington were
of an assuring character, as his views of the situation con
tinued to be hopeful. It is true, he did, at a late day, in
transmitting a letter of St. Clair's, in which was an ac
count of the enemy being discovered in considerable force
on both sides of Gilliland's Creek, venture to ask Wash
ington for reinforcements. " If the enemy's object is not
to attack Ticonderoga," said he, " I suspect their move
ment is intended to cover an attempt on New Hampshire,
or the Mohawk river, or to cut off the communications
between Fort Edward and Fort George, or, perhaps, all
three, the more to distract us and divide our force." Later,
when it became apparent the enemy were moving to at
tack Fort Stanwix, as well as Ticonderoga, ho wrote in
this cheerful strain to St. Clair: " I shall have great hopes
if General Burgoyne continues in the vicinity of your
post until we get up, and dares risk an engagement, we
shall give a good account of him." 1 So little did he un
derstand the situation. Nevertheless, he was urgent in
his appeals to those from whom help might be expected.
Congress was not left in doubt. Nothing was done towards
relief, and the abandonment of the post, the only measure
dictated by prudence, was not thought of by the controllSt.
Clair MS. The tone of Schuyler's correspondence during the
last days of June nnd the week following the evacuation of Ticon
deroga, is inexplicable, in the face of the conclusions of a council of
war over which he presided, held at Ticonderoga, on the 20th of June.
This action will be treated of in the text further on.
Lip and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 59
ling powers. If Schuyler thought of it, he had not the
mural courage to recommend it in the face of puhlic ex
pectation.1 As late as the closing days of June, he was
looking to Massachusetts, to the President of which he
wrote: "Our garrison at Ticonderoga is greatly inadccputte
to the defense of the extensive works on both sides
of the lake, and I have, unhappily, no troops to reinforce
them."2 It was the second of July, before the militia of
Hampshire and Berkshire counties were ordered to march
for Ticonderoga.3
Meanwhile, St. Clair was unable to get any certain news
of the enemy. Scouts were constantly sent out, the best
of Whitcomb's men, but of these, alas ! few ever returned.'
Such as did, reported the forests every-where filled with
Indians. There was a fateful mystery in this that boded
ill, but the stout-hearted St. Clair toiled on until —just as
the defensive works were nearly completed, and his ragged
men and boys began to put on something of the air of sol1
Schuyler visited Ticonderoga on the 17th June,1 and remained sev
eral d.iys. While there, he asked Wilkinson his opinion of the plan
that should be adopted. The reply was that the heavy cannon and
the army, except fifteen hundred select men, should be moved at once
to Fort George, as, by this plan, they wou'd be enabled to defend the
place against a feint, and, in case of a serious attack, the light troops
could scamper over the hills and join the main body. General Schuy
ler "observed that this was precisely his own opinion, but that will, out orders
from Congress he Jure not take on himself the responsibility of a measure which
wou'd excite a great outer;/" —Memoir.*, p. 174. The statement is con
firmed by Schuyler's testimony before the court on the occasion of the
trial of St. Clair. See. p 450, post.
* St. C air MS. Arehives of Massachusetts.
2 Letter of Artemas Ward, to Josiah Bartlett. —Archives of Massa
chusetts.
* " Every stratagem and enterprise was employed by General St. Clair
to ascertain the force and objects of the enemy, but without effect;
his movements were covered by his fleet, and his Indian scouts were
spread throughout the wilderness which surrounded us. Our reeonnoitering
parties were either cut up and captured, or routed and driven
in."— Wilkinson's Memoirs, p. 178. See also testimony, p. 447.
(1 ) The auther of the Life of Schuyler says 20th ct Tune, but then that writer Is not very accurate, He either lacked the industry te consult original sources, or the facts
did not harmonize with his theory.
69 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
diers—there were unmistakable signs of a powerful force in
front of him. If the enemy would only attack his lines,
there would be hot work ; and he hoped his men, who were
in good spirits, would act creditably. But, would Burgoyne
attack the fortifications ? Would his vessels come within
reach of the floating batteries, or the boom? Lot us take
a look at the enemy, which was more than the American
scouts had succeeded in doing, so that both sides in the
game may be made clear before us.
General Burgoyne had returned to Canada from England,
bringing with him a plan of campaign for "quelling the
rebellion as soon as possible." To accomplish this, Sir
Guy Carleton was informed that it was highly necessary
to effect a speedy junction of the two armies. He was in
structed to retain a force of three thousand men in Can
ada, and to employ the remainder of his army upon two
expeditions, the one under command of Lieutenant General
Burgoyne, who was to force his way to Albany, and the
other under the command of Lieutenant-Colonel St. Legcr,
who was to make a diversion on the Mohawk River.1 Au
thority was given to employ " good and sufficient bodies"
of Canadians and Indians to aid in the execution of this
plan.
General Burgoytie's army numbered seven thousand eight
hundred and sixty-three men, including two hundred Ca
nadians and four hundred Indians.2 He had under him
such experienced officers as Major-General Fraser, who
commanded the British infantry ; Major-General Riedesel,
who commanded the German troops, and Major-General
Phillips, in command of the artillery. Perhaps no army
was ever better equipped for an offensive campaign
than Burgoyne's on this occasion. The artillery num
bered one hundred and forty-two guns, and included six
teen heavy twenty-four-pounders and ten heavy twelvepounders.3
To oppose this formidable array the American
1Account of the Expedition from Canada laid before the House of
Commons. Appendix XIII.
ULid.pp. 12-17.
* BurjOjnJs Xa~. alive, p. 13.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 61
works were provided with one hundred cannon, of indif
ferent caliber, and a small force of inexperienced artiller
ists to serve them.
The British assembled between the 17th and 20th of
June at Cumberland Point, on Lake Champlain, and after
a day spent in feasting and haranguing tbeir Indian allies,
they moved forward to Crown Point, where a hospital and
magazines were erected. On the 30th, General Burgoyne
ordered the advance corps, "consisting of the British light
infantry and grenadiers, the Twenty-fourth regiment, some
Canadians and savages, and ten pieces of light artillery,
under command of Brigadier-General Fraser, to move up
the west shore of the lake to Four-Mile Point, so called
from being within that distance of Ticonderoga." The
German reserve, under Lieutenant-Colonel Breyman, were
moved at the same time to Richardson's farm, on the east
shore, opposite to Putnam Creek.1 The next day the whole
army made a movement forward and encamped in two
lines, the right wing at the Four-Mile Point, the left wing
nearly opposite, on the east shore. At the same time the
fleet anchored just without the reach of the American
batteries.
On the approach of the right wing of the British army,
the Americans set fire to the saw-mills and abandoned
their works toward Lake George, and left General Phil
lips to possess the advantageous post of Mount Hope,
without making any resistance, which must have been in
effectual, and could have answered no good purpose.2 Pre
ceding this movement, the Indians, under Captain Fra/.er,
supported by his company of marksmen, were directed by
the British commander to make a circuit to the left of
the line of the advanced corps, and endeavor to cut otf
the retreat of the Americans to their lines, but this design
was defeated by the impetuosity of the Indians, who, de1
Burgmjnes Narrative. Appendix XXVI.
1 Gonlnn, Vol. II., p. 480. Irving, who generally speaks of St. Clnir
in terms of praise, censures him for abandoning Mount Hope. But
possession of that hill without troops to support the force there, as
Gordon says, could have answered no good purpose.
62 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
ceived by the nature of the ground, which was covered
by brushwood, were unaware of the close proximity of the
defenses, attacked the Americans in front, forced them
to retire, with a loss of one officer and a few men killed
and one officer wounded,1 but were checked by a fire from
the work3, which were less than two hundreds yards dis
tant. Suspecting this movement for an assault, General
St. Clair directed the troops to sit down on the banquette
with their backs to the parapet, as well to cover them
from the shot of the enemy as to prevent their throwing
away their own fire, and himself kept watch of the enemy,
who continued to crawl toward their works, under cover
of the brushwood. Seeing a light infantry man of the
enemy's force industriously loading and firing, under cover
of the bushes, within forty paces of the ditch, Colonel
Wilkinson ordered a sergeant to rise and shoot him. The
order was obeyed, and a curious result followed : not only
was the man knocked over on the side of the enemy, but
every American soldier straightway mounted the banquette,
and without command fired a volley; "the artillery fol
lowed the example, as did many of the officers, from the
colonel down to subalterns, and, notwithstanding the ex
ertions of the general and his staff, three rounds were dis
charged before they could stop the firing, and when the
smoke dispersed, the enemy were observed at three hun
dred yards' distance, retreating helter-skelter." - Wilkin
son discovered his man lying prostrate on his back, and
mentioned the circumstance to General St. Clair, who,
though exceedingly heated by the conduct of the troops,
replied, " with that mild philanthropy which distinguished
his character, ' Send out a corporal and a file of men, and
let the poor filow be brought in and buried.' But as the
corporal approached the supposed dead man, he jumped
up, clubbed his musket, and exclaimed, 'By Jasus, I killed
the man at the sally-port; a fair shot!"3 The Irishman
1 Rurgnync's Xarralive. Appendix XXVIII.
2 \Wlknsoas Memoirs, Vol. I., p. 182.
* Wilkinson's Memoirs, Vol. I., p. 183.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 63
was brought it), and though sit first stubborn enough, tbe
companionship of a fellow-countryman, supplied with
creature-comforts, at night, was sufficient to draw out i'nmi
him important information as to the strength of the enemy.
On tbe 3d, Mount Hope was occupied in force by Gen
eral Fraser's whole corps, supported by artillery, thus
cutting off the Americans from all communication with
Lake George. On the east side, General Riedescl was en
camped in a parallel line with Three-Mile Point, having
pushed the reserve forward, near the rivulet which encir
cles Mount Independence.1 Tbe Americans kept up a
vigorous fire during the day, to which no response was
made. S:. Clair, knowing the desperate nature of his
situation, still lingered, hoping that Genera! Burgoyne
might be provoked to make an assault. If that were only
done, no matter what tbe result, an opportunity would be
afforded a soldier to give an account of the enemy, and
stop public clamor. Within forty-eight hours that hope
wus dispelled.
Tbe tongue of land swept by the waters of South River
and the inlet from Lake George as they unite and form a
bay at the southern extremity of Luke Champlain, is a
bifry and rugged eminence overlooking all other points,
aud supposed hitherto by French, English and American
engineers to be inaccessible for artillery. It was known
as- trugar-Loaf Hill, or Mount Defiance. Its importance
iu the inreitment did not escape such experienced soldiers
a* Iiargoyne and Phillips, and Lieutenant Twiss, the com
manding engineer, was ordered to reconnoiter. He " re
ported this hill to have the entire command of the works
and buildings, both of Ticonderoga and Mount Independ
ence, at the distance of about one thousand four hundred
yards from the former, and one thousand five hundred
irom the latter; that the ground might be leveled so as to
rece'iTt cannon, and that the road to convey them, though
difficult, might be made practicable in twenty-four hours."2
1 l.u-pmnn't Xjrralite—.Appendix XXVIII.
3 2iurgu,mi"t Xa TilU-e. A ppendix XXIV.,
64 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
This lull also commanded, in reverse, the bridge of com
munication, exposed to view the exact situation of the
vessels, and the Americans could not during the day make
any material movement or preparation without being dis
covered, and even having their numbers counted.1 Gen
eral Phillips proceeded at once to the execution of this
arduous task.
When General St. Clair discovered that the enemy were
in possession of Mount Defiance, he knew that resistance
was hopeless. Two courses were open to him, viz : To
defend the works until bis men were either killed or cap
tured ; or to abandon his plan of concentrating on Mount
Independence, and attempt an escape with a view of plac
ing himself between the invaders and tbe inhabitants be
yond Fort Edward. The moment of doubt as to the
course to be chosen was one of supreme importance to the
country, and to St. Clair—of that critical nature most
trying to a soldier, when great souls are proved. To re
main would be to lose his army, to evacuate would be to
sacrifice himself. The struggle was soon over. He chose
wisely the general good rather than the " bloody honors
which were within his reach." " Well do I remember his
reply to me," said Wilkinson, in describing the scene in
other days, "when deploring the necessity of our retreat:
'It must be so, my boy. 'Tis not in mortals to command
success, but we'll do more, we will deserve it. I know 1
could sore my character by sacrificing the army ; but were 1 to
do so I should forfeit that which the world could not restore,
and which it can not take away, the approbation of my own
conscience.' "
A council of general officers was convened, and it was
unanimously decided to withdraw from the fortifications.2
Measures were immediately taken for effecting the evacua
tion. The officers were instructed to proceed to carry out
the orders as soon as the shades of evening would permit
the men to move without risk of revealing to the enemy
1 Burgnyne's Narrative. Appendix XXIV.
2 St. Clair Papers, p. 420.
Life and Public Sereices of ArtIt a r St. Clair. 65
their purpose. The sick, and as much of the cannon, pro
visions and stores as possible were embarked on the boats,
and ordered to Skenesborough, where St. Clair directed
Colonel Long, " an active, diligent, good officer," to take
command with his regiment and the invalids, until he should
joiu him with the army, which was to march to that place
by the way of Castleton.1 As many of the cannon were
spiked as possible, and just after midnight the garrison
of Ticonderoga crossed the bridge to Mount Independence,
where it was found little had been done. The rascally
French general, De Fermoy, to whom had been intrusted
the preparations for removal at Mount Independence, was
discovered to be sound asleep. The movements here were
necessarily hurried, but all went well until the evil genius
of Fermoy moved him to disobey the express orders of the
commanding general, and set fire to his quarters on Mount
Independence, as he was leaving them about two o'clock
on the morning of the 6th.2 This exposed to the enemy
the rear of the American army, and word was at once con
veyed to Brigadier-General Fraser, who took possession
of the deserted posts, and pursued with his brigade after
the retreating Americans. There was much confusion
amongst the latter, which, however, was corrected through
the personal exertions of St. Clair.
Soon after daylight, General Burgoyne was apprised of
the flight. He directed Major-General Riedesel to move
to the support of Brigadier Fraser, while he turned his
attention to the pursuit by water. It was now to be seen
whether the hopes which General Schuyler and Congress
•St. Clair's letter to President Hancock from Ft. Edward, p. 426.
1 Fermoy was placed at Ticonderoga by express orders of Congress.
Washington had protested against placing foreign adventurers over
American troops, but the policy of Congress was to seek foreign aid,
and it was hoped good reports would be sent across the water by the
officers they honored. Unfortunately, Congress did not discriminate
wisely between merit and impudent incapacity. One of tho worst of
the adventurers was this very General Fermoy, who brought disaster
upon the rear of St. Clair's army aftor the successful retroat from Ticon
deroga.
5
66 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
had placed on the boom stretched between Ticonderoga
and Mount Independence, would bo realized. If im
pregnable as confidently believed by Schuyler, it would
delay the enemy until Colonel Long could get safely away
with the stores, and a junction formed either with the
main army or the forces that were approaching from the
south. General Burgoyne tells the result of the attack on
the boom in a few words : The gun-boats were instantly
moved forward, and "the boom and one of the inter
mediate floats were cut with great dexterity and dispatch,
and Commodore Lutwidge, with the officers and seamen
in his department, partaking the general animation, a
passage was formed in half an hour for the frigates also,"
" through impediments," adds the ardent General, "which
the enemy had been laboring to construct since last
autumn."
An impregnable boom cut with such dispatch as to ad
mit of the passage of frigates in half an hour !
Colonel Long moved from Ticonderoga up SouthRiver.
" Its beautiful waters wound among the mountains, cov
ered with primeval forests. The bateaux, deeply laden,
made their way slowly in a lengthened line ; sometimes
under the shadows of mountains, sometimes in the gleam
of moonlight. The rear-guard of armed galleys followed
at wary distance. Xo immediate pursuit, however, was
apprehended T, he floating bridge [boom] was considered
an effectual impediment to the enemy's fleet.'' 1 Scarcely
had the disembarkation at Skenesborough commenced,
when the guard of armed vessels was attacked by the
British gun-boats, which had pushed on with all possible
rapidity. Two of the American vessels soon struck, and
the other three were blown up. Colonel Long set fire to
the fort, mills, storehouses and bateaux, and retired up
Wood Creek to Fort Anne, where he arrived about day
light. The loss of property at Skenesborough was very
large, and included all of the officers' baggage.
The British pursued to Fort Anne, but there met with
1 Irving' s Washington. Vol. III., p. 120.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 67
a vigorous resistance and lost some troops, the Americans
capturing a number of prisoners, including Captain Mont
gomery and a surgeon. Supposing this to be the advance
of General Burgoyne's army, Colonel Long set fire to Fort
Anne, and retreated to Fort Edward.
The body of St. Clair's army reached Castleton the
next evening, thirty miles from Ticonderoga and twelve
from Skenesborough, and there halted. The rear-guard,
under Colonel Seth Warner,1 which, with the stragglers
and infirm, amounted to near twelve hundred, stopped at
Hubbardton, six miles from the main body. Besides his
own regiment, Warner had the regiments of Colonels
Francis and Hale, and, if he had been as active as the
enemy, he would have joined the main body before Gen
eral Fraser could have come up.2 The latter, after giving
his men a rest, until three o'clock in the morning, pushed
on until he overtook the Americans, who were yet in
camp, at five o'clock. He attacked with great spirit.
Hale and his regiment immediately fled, but Warner and
Francis were of different metal, and the brave Green
Mountain boys under them had heard the whistle of bul
lets before. They met the attack with great coolness, and,
being prevented from getting possession of the command
ing ground to their right, posted themselves behind logs
and. trees, whence they kept up the fight in true American
style. But for the opportune arrival of General Riedescl,
with his Brunswickers, General Fraser would have been
badly beaten. But it was not until after the noble Francis
had been killed, and the strength of the enemy had been
1 General Warner, who had been sent to Otter creek on an expedi
tion, had only returned to Ticonderoga on the fifth, bringing with him
a reinforcement of Vermont militia.
2General St. Clair instructed Colonel Warner in the most positive
manner to encamp with the main body at Castleton, and not to stop
short of that place. Colonel Warner chose to disregard the order.
This sort of license, or independence, was common in the American
Armies, and there was no way to correct it. The Continental soldiers,
as well as militia, would leave without a permit, return home for a
breathing spell, and then again resume their places. This was coun
tenanced by many officers. Were they not all " peers?" r
68 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
greatly increased by the German reinforcements, that Seth
Warner gave the order to retreat. His men took to the
woods, and were several days in finding the main body.
Upon hearing the firing, St. Clair sent an order by an aid
to two militia regiments, posted within four miles of Hub
bardton, to hasten to Warner's assistance, but they refused
to obey orders, and marched directly to Castleton. By
the time the disobedience was reported to headquarters
the result of the action was known, and St. Clair, being
advised of the fate of Skcnesborough, changed his route,
and sent word to Warner to join him at Rutland. Gen
eral Burgoyne reported the loss of the Americans at two hun
dred killed, including Col. Francis, six hundred wounded,
and two hundred and ten taken prisoners. But, as he also
reported the Americans engaged as two thousand, when
there were in fact only about seven hundred and fifty, we
may safely set down his statement as a gross exaggeration.
Gordon places the American loss, on authority of a Brit
ish officer, as three hundred and twenty-four, killed,
wounded, and prisoners,1 and the loss of the enemy at not
less than one hundred and eighty-three killed and wounded.
They had three officers killed and twelve wounded.2 The
action was desperately fought on both sides, and, in the
words of General Burgoyne, its bare relation is sufficient
for its praise.
General St. Clair continued his circuitous march, and,
at Manchester, was joined by brave Seth Warner and the
remainder of his regiment. Here it was found necessary to
dismiss the two Massachusetts regiments that had refused
to go to Warner's relief at Hubbardton, as their conduct
was so licentious and disorderly there was danger their ex
ample might affect the Continental troops.3 The command
ing general did not forget the interests of the inhabitants to
1But this number includes Colonel Hale and a part of the men
under him, captured after the engagement by a detachment of British.
"Colonel Hale, on account of illness, had not brought his regiment
into action." See Stone's Campaign of General Jnltn Burgoi.ne, p "2.
* Gordon, Vol. II., p. 4S4.
•St. Clair's letter to President Hancock, July 14th, p. 426.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 69
the eastward, or the importance of his reaching Fort Ed
ward with as large a force as possible. On the 6th, he di
rected the Vermont militia that were with him to remain
at Rutland for the protection of the people until the State
Convention should direct otherwise. The following day,
he wrote to Joseph Bowker, President of that Convention,
a letter explaining the evacuation of Ticondcroga, and
calculated, from its cheerful tone, to give encouragement.
He asked that the reinforcements coming on by Number
Four he directed to meet him at Bennington, whither he
was marching for provisions. It was his purpose to march
thence for the North River, and endeavor to prevent the
enemy from penetrating into the country.1 From Dorset,
on the 9th, he announced that Colonel Warner's regiment
would be left in the Grants, and requested that all cattle
fit to be killed should be sent on to Fort Edward. JJe
concluded as follows : " Your Convention have given such
proofs of their readiness to concur in any measure for the
public safety that it would be impertinent to press them
now. I will only repeat the request I made before, that
the militia from the eastward marching by Number Four
may be directed to take the shortest route to join the
army." 1
General St. Clair reached Fort Edward on the 12th,
after an arduous march of nearly seven days, and brought
to the support of the Continental cause two thousand
troops that could be relied on. This force served as a
basis for a new army. The militia collected speedily, so
that on the 14th he could say to Congress confidently,
truthfully, and with justifiable self-gratulation : " I have
the most sanguine hopes that the progress of the enemy
will be checked ; and I may yet hare the satisfaction to ex
perience that, BY ABAXD0NINO A POST, I HaVE EVEXTUAU/?
saved a State."
Time has justified this, and proved that the soldier who,
in the face of popular clamor and obloquy, elected to do his
1(StoW Papers, Vol. III.
1 Ibid. Si. Clair Papers, p. 424.
70 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
duty, deserved the wreath of victory. His memory shall
endure with the Republic he helped to establish.
The Adamses did not mean it to be so. Both John and
Samuel denounced the evacuation of Ticonderoga as a
crime. " We shall never be able to defend a post," wrote
the former, who was President of the Board of "War, " till
we shoot a General." Fort Washington had been defended,
and three thousand men killed or captured, by which the
Americans had been brought to great distress. That was
a military blunder, and did not receive a word of censure
from the Board of War. The evacuation of Ticonderoga,
which saved troops to the Americans at a critical period,
was a wise military stroke, and the same board became
censorious. Was it because of their own neglect ? We
shall see. Samuel Adams saw in the event an opportunity
for the triumph of faction,1 and he industriously labored,
in his correspondence, to create a feeling against the
Northern generals, so deep, that even the Commanderin-Chief,
whose confidence in them was known, could
not stem it. In this the information as to the real condi
tion of affairs at Ticonderoga, which had been placed be
fore Congress by St. Clair, and was in possession of the
Board of War, was carefully suppressed, and the state
ments in correspondence of the officers, after the evacua
tion, were grossty misrepresented.2 The same spirit of
faction, prevalent in Massachusetts and Connecticut, not
only influenced the militia to refuse to obey orders and to
serve under any except such officers as they might select,
but moved the stay-at-home patriots to denounce the offi
cers in the Boston papers. A private letter from St. Clair
to Governor Bowdoin, hurriedly written after the evacu
ation, and containing meager particulars, was inadvisedly
given to the Boston Gazette, and served as a pretext for
the most unfair and abusive articles. St. Clair and his
1 Only six months before, in writing to John Adams, ho had asked,
referring to General Gates, " How shall we make him the head of that
[the Northern] army "
2See letter of S. Adams to R. II. Lee, July 12th. Life of Samuel
Adams, Vol. II., pp. 484,486.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 71
friend Wilkinson replied with spirit, but not always in
the best temper. To Governor Bowdoin, General St. Clair
wrote at length, giving cogent reasons for the evacuation.1
The wicked character of the calumnies invented and in
dustriously circulated against St. Clair and Schuyler, was
only equaled by their absurdity. They were accused of
cowardice ; and it was alleged that they had held communi
cations with the enemy, and had received their reward in
closed in silver balls fired into St. Clair's camp. " The
characters of our Generals who were at Ticonderoga,"
wrote Colonel John Trumbull, at that day, " particularly
St. Clair's, are suffering perhaps irretrievably. The minds
of the people are much inflamed."
It is undoubtedly true that, outside of faction, which
waxed strong on the apparently successful movements of
Burgoyne, among those who had confided in the supposed
impregnability of the Northern fortresses, there was a panic
and deep anxiety. " The evacuation of Ticonderoga,"
says Sparks, " spread the greater panic and surprise, as it
was unexpected. The actual force and condition of St.
Clair's army had been overrated by the public. Hopes
were raised high ; the eyes of the nation were turned upon
Ticonderoga ; and when the news of the retreat went
abroad, the disappointment was extreme, and the loud
voice of complaint and censure against the unfortunate
general was reiterated from one end of the continent to
the other. Time proved that he had acted the fart of a judi
cious and skillful officer; but the excitement of the moment
was so great, caused by chagrin on the one hand and
alarm on the other, that all eyes were blind, and all ears
deaf, to the true reasons of the case, and even to the pal
liating circumstances.2"
1 The correspondence will be found in full in this work, pp. 425-6.
1Life of Gouverncur Morris, p. 129.
" The dread with which this unexpected blow filled the whole coun
try, was as extravagant as their rage against the commanding officer,
who, in the language of the day, had sold, or given away, the most im
portant fortress on the continent." Letter of Governor Trumbull to
Baron Vander Capellan, August 31, 177'.i. Mans. His. Soc. Collections,
Vol. VI., p. 170.
72 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
Contemporary publications do not justify so broad a
statement as to the extent of the feeling of alarm. It was
pretty much confined to the East, the section immediately
interested. But the factionists in Congress attempted to
extend the flames to the entire country.
Fortunately for the cause, there was a saving conserva
tism that intervened and prevented disaster, and, for a
time, checked the hand of injustice. Jay, G. Morris, "Wil
son, and, above all, Washington, counseled patience and
forbearance. Morris, on behalf of the New York Council
of safety, visited the Northern army, and made himself
familiar with the situation. He saw, with St. Clair, the
strategic importance of the movement withdrawingfrom un
tenable posts, and the success which must now attend the
Americans if they rallied to place obstacles in the way of
Burgoyne as he moved his army farther from his base.1
"Washington was greatly perplexed, as he had not been sup
plied with copies of St. Clair's letters to Congress, and had
been misled by the correspondence of Schuyler.2 The real
1 Letter to the President of the Council of Safety, life of G. Mor
ris, p. 135.
1 How General Schuyler had misled General Washington as to the
strength of the garrisons under St. Clair is shown by the following ex
tract from a letter he received from the Commander-in-Chief just after
the event: " The evacuation of Ticonderoga and Mount Independence
is an event of chnurin and surprise not apprehended nor within the
compass of my reasoning. I know not upon what principle it was
founded, and I should suppose it would be still more difficult to be accounted
for if the garrison amounted to five thousand men, in high spirits,
healthy, well supplied with provisions and ammunition, and Eastern militia
were marching to their succor, as you mentioned in your letter of the
9th [June] to the Council of Safety of New York."—How different
was the actual condition from this rosy picture, we have seen. General
Schuyler had sent also to Washington the youthful effusions of Henry
Brockholst Livingston,1 one of his aids, for the time on the staff of
St. Clair, in which the most glowing description is given of the spirit
of the troops, and promise of victory is held out on the very eve of
the evacuation. " I can not but esteem myself fortunate," wrote he,
on the ;',0th of June, " that indisposition prevented my returning with
you, as it has given me an opportunity of being present at a battle, in
(11 Afterward a Judge of the Supreme Court of the United States.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 73
object of the British campaign had not been made clear un
til this movement of Burgoyne's in force. He saw, with
his usual quickness, how the enemy might be thwarted,
and, with characteristic courage and rapidity, formed a new
plan of campaign, He reinforced Schuyler on the Hudson,
while keeping in view the importance of preventing Lord
Howe from getting possession of the Highlands by a coup
de main, imparted to the public something of his own hope
fulness, and yielded to the clamor of the factionists only
so far as to suggest that St. Clair should make a public ex
planation. " People at a distance," said he, " are apt to
form wrong conjectures, and if General St. Clair has good
reasons for the step he has taken, I think the sooner he
justifies himself the better.1"
He saw clearly the great possibilities of the situation.
" Though our affairs," said he, " have, for some days past,
worn a dark and gloomy aspect, I yet look forward to a
fortunate and happy change. I trust General Burgoyne's
army will meet, sooner or later, an effectual check ; and,
as I suggested before, that the success he has had will
precipitate his ruin."
Before recording the triumphant result of the campaign
in New York, we have to consider where the responsibility
properly belongs for the temporary loss of the Northern
posts, and for the misunderstanding prevalent among the
people as to the real situation at Ticonderoga.
We have seen how, after the retreat from Canada, Gates,
deeming his army of nearly thirteen thousand insufficient
to cope with the British, called for a reinforcement of
eight to ten thousand men ; how, when the enemy had
gone into winter quarters, and there were yet nearly five
thousand troops under Schuyler, Samuel Adams, as chairwhich
I promise myself the pleasure of seeing our army flushed with
victory.1" The bright anticipations of this boy-soldier were set down
in the general indictment against St. Clair, as promises of successful
resistance of the enemy made by that officer.
1 Letter to General Schuyler, 18th July, 1777.
(1) Hchuylcr Papers.
74 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
man of the Committee on the State of the Northern
army, Bent out an urgent appeal to the New England
States to strengthen Ticonderoga; how meager was the
response ; how the brave Wayne wept at the sufferings of
the garrisons ; how, even when summer followed spring the
works were incomplete, the garrisons scarcely twenty-five
hundred strong, not sufficient to man the works if placed
at intervals barely within sound of each other's voices,
poorly clothed and imperfectly armed, and how these were
called on to do what Gates did not believe could be done
nine months before with thirteen thousand men. All of
these facts were in possession of Congress when the evac
uation took place, and there could be no justification for
affecting surprise at the event. It was said that the corre
spondence of St. Clair gave rise to hopes of a different
result. Detached sentences were quoted, and the text
misrepresented. The letter of the 20th, to James Wilson,
has already been referred to. We shall now call attention
to his letter of the 25th of June, a fortnight after he as
sumed the command, and ten days before the evacuation,
addressed to President Hancock. lIe said:
" I inclose you a return of our troops at this post, by
which you will perceive our effective numbers are little
more than two thousand, a force greatly inadequate to its
defense ; which, should the enemy attack it in force, would
require at least four times that number. In that two
thousand are included a number of artificers who arc un
armed, and many of the soldiers are in the same condition,
and the whole in very great want of clothing, accouterments
and bayonets.
" If the militia were called in, they might possibly en
able us to keep possession, but I have not yet ventured on
that step on account of our low Btate of provisions, there
not being more than thirty-five days' meat for the troops
now here, and because of the uncertainty with regard to
the enemy'8 designs.
" No army was ever in a more critical situation than we
now are; and supposing that this move is only a feint to
favor the operations of Sir William Howe, which I still
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 75
suspect it to be, we may, and probably will be, reduced to
tbe greatest distress, the supplies being derived from such
a distance, and the communication so difficult, that it is
next to impossible to support it."
Did Congress come to the relief of the Northern army
after this plain statement of the weakness of the garrison
and the dangers of the situation ? No. Faction paralized
some, others held to the theory that the British designs
were to the southward, and others believed in the im
pregnability of the works, which had been constructed
under the direction of the Board of "War.
The works had been constructed upon a plan devised
after a committee had inspected the grounds. K they
were deficient, to Congress belonged the responsibil
ity. That they were utterly worthless as a defense
against an enterprising and experienced enemy was shown
when Mount Defiance was occupied, and St. Clair found
all of his lines under the guns of the enemy. "Whose
fault was it that this commanding eminence was left un
provided with fortifications ? The relation of a singular
circumstance will answer that question.
Adjutant John Trumbull, of Gates's staff, was stationed
at Ticonderoga in 1776, when Gates and Arnold and
"Wayne were there. He came to the conclusion that
Mount Defiance completely commanded the American
position, and that its distance from the old fort and Mount
Independence was by no means so great as generally sup
posed. He expressed his opinion at the table of General
Gates, when the principal officers were present, and was
laughed at for his pains. He, however, obtained the Gen
eral's permission to test his theory by experiment. He
selected at the north point of Mount Independence, a
twelve-pounder, a long French brass gun, which was
loaded with the proof-charge of the best powder and
double-shotted. He then desired Major Stevens to elevate
the gun so that it should point at Mount Defiance. The
gun was fired, and the shot were plainly seen to strike at
more than half the height of the hill. A similar experi
nient was made from the old French fort with a common
76 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
six-pound gun, and the shot struck near the summit. Still
it was insisted upon that the summit of Sugar-Loaf was
inaccessible to an enemy. This Colonel Trumbull dis
proved. Accompanied by General Arnold, Colonel Wayne
and several other active officers, he landed from a barge at
the foot of the hill, where it was most precipitous and
rocky, and clambered to the summit in a short time.
" The ascent was difficult and laborious, but not imprac
ticable, and when they looked down upon the outlet of
Lake George, it was obvious to all there could be no dif
ficulty in driving up a loaded carriage."1
To maintain the several posts then held by the Ameri
cans, Colonel Trumbull calculated, would require ten thou
sand men, which would be found impossible in future
campaigns for Government to supply ; and, as there was
no road on either side of the lake by which an enemy
could penetrate into the country south, he must necessarily
make use of this water-route, which could be completely
commanded by fortifications on Mount Defiance. It was,
therefore, as ten thousand men and one hundred pieces of
cannon against five hundred men and twenty-five heavy
guns. Success in fortification and economy were clearly
in favor of erecting works on Mount Defiance, and with
drawing from Ticonderoga and Mount Independence.
Colonel Trumbull drew up three copies of the plans and
memoir, one to be submitted to General Gates, one to
General Schuyler, and one to Congress. A copy of the
drawing of the post, as prepared by Colonel Trumbull,
.-accompanies this work.
Neither the Committee on War, under whose directions
the works were constructed at Ticonderoga and the de
fense conducted in the fall and winter of 1776-77, nor either
of the Generals in command of the Northern Department,
took the only steps which could have saved the posts.
Therefore, the responsibility for whatever results followed
this neglect is easily placed.2 St. Clair, who reached Ti1
Autobiography of John Trumbull, p. 32.
2 " The events of the succeeding campaign," concludes Colonel Trum
bull's recital of events around the posts in 1776, "demonstrated the


Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 77
conderoga only about twenty days before the evacuation,
was directly confronted with the problem : IIow best to
save for the country the small force the Board of War had
provided for the Northern Department.
One of the ablest leaders and most generous patriots of
the Revolutionary period was Philip Schuyler, and it is
with great reluctance we refer to the humiliating position
in which he placed himself immediately after the evacua
tion of Ticonderoga, but it is necessary to a complete his
tory of that event. General Schuyler had, at a council
of war over which he presided on the 20th of June, ex
pressed the opinion that the force and the works were in
adequate to a defense, and that preparations should be
made for a retreat in case the enemy invested in force.1
In a letter to Colonel Varick, on the first of July, he said:
" The insufficiency of the garrison at Ticonderoga, the
imperfect state of the fortifications, and the want of dis
cipline in the troops, give me great cause to apprehend
that we shall lose that fortress, but as a reinforcement is
coming up from Fcekskill,2 with which I shall move up, I
correctness of my views, for General St. Clair was left to defend Ti
conderoga without any essential addition to the garrison, which had
been placed there by command of General Gates in the preceding
November, because the Congress could not spare more men or menns ; so that,
when General Burgoyne presented himself at Three-Mile Point, no
opposition could be hazarded to his movements, and instead of assault
ing the works (as had been formerly done by General Abercrombie in
1757), he silently turned the left of the position, crossed the outlet of
Lake George, and established a battery of heavy guns on the summit
of Mount Defiance, the shot from which plunged into the old French
fort and lines, and reached all points of Mount Independence; so
that, as I had predicted, the whole position became untenable, and
was immediately abandoned. General St. Clair became the object of
furious denunciations, whereas, he merited thanks for having saved a
part of the devoted garrison, who subsequently formed the nucleus of
that force by which, in the course of the campaign, General Burgoyne
was ultimately baffled, and compelled to surrender his victorious army
by the convention of Saratoga."
1 The full text of the proceedings in council will be found in another
place in this work, p. 404.
2 General Washington had directed General Putnam to send three
or four regiments to reinforce the Northern army.
80 Life and Public Services of
but there was calm confidence in 1
tory.
The letter of Mr. Jay to General
above refers, is dated Kingston, .
DATE RETURNED:
RESERVE FOR:
RECALLED:
other writers who have neglected to go to
selves. The full passage in St. Clair's lette recall for:-
" My people are in the best disposition p
about giving a good account of the enemy
to attack us ; and, if the person I mentioned i.
ity that now presents itself, they will go backfast, '•
above a thousand men." I.
To understand this fully, it is necessary 3
ters of St. Clair, to ascertain the opinion he overdue notice sent:
and especially the letter to which the abc
June 2Sth. In that, he informs General S
Colonel Warner to the Grants the day befon *•
to oppose the incursions of the savages that s.
and have ordered him to attack them, atid j. reported lost:
possible. I am very happy to find the com march of that party before Colonel Warner { instructions:
it will probably prevent their success, and i
The retreat of the enemy (supposed to be in t
spondence shows), was dependent on the ent
ner, and if that resulted as ho and St. Clair 1
would compel the enemy to fall back. But Lc
the meaning that St. Clair referred solely to an L,n over
the British, if they should attack the works of Ticonderoga in force;
whereas, the correspondence of St. Clair, from the middle of June,
when he assumed command, asserts the impracticability of defending
the posts with the meager troops and small supplies he had. The sit
uation had been discussed with Schuyler, and the report of the evacu
ation could not have been "astounding news" to him. During the
proceedings of the court martial, General Schuyler was asked what
troops he had estimated for the defense of the garrisons of Ticonde
roga and Independence. "Answer. Ten thousand Continental troops."
And yet St. Clair had not three thousand, including militia whose time
was about to expire—and Schuyler was astounded !
Now read the following question and answer:
''Question by General St. Clair: 'Did you ever give me any orders for
evacuating these garrisons?' "
"Answer. ' No. The reason why I did not give you any orders for
evacuating these garrisons was, because 1 had written this letter to
Congress [read in testimony as showing that the Board of War had
been fully apprised of the critical condition of the posts, June 8th],
and they did nut give me any orders about it; and, as the Continent eon-
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 81
signed to put General Schuyler in possession of all that
his enemies were saying to his prejudice, as well as the
tone of current comment. The paragraphs to which St.
Clair's letter particularly refers are the following:
" It is said, but I know not with what truth, that St.
Clair, on being asked hy some of his officers why the fort
was evacuated, replied, generally, that he knew what he
did ; that, on his own account, he was very easy about the
matter, and that he had it in his power to justify him
self. From hence some inferred that he must have alluded
to orders from you.
"Another report prevails, that some short time before
the fort was left, a number of heavy cannon were, by your
order, dismounted and laid aside, and small ones placed in
their room. This is urged as circumstantial proof against
you."
Subsequently, on the 26th July, Mr. Jay acknowledged
the receipt of the letter of St. Clair, and said : " This at
tack on your reputation will, I hope, do you only a tem
porary injury. The honest though credulous multitude,
when undeceived, will regret their giving way to suspicions
which have led them to do injustice.
" I have reason to suspect that the Council of Safety be
lieved that Ticonderoga was left by your direction or ad
vice, or with your knowledge. They appear fully satisfied
of the contrary, and, in my opinion, St. Clair's letter will
remove all doubts on that head."
While Burgoyne remained at Skenesborough, General
Schuyler employed the time in placing obstructions in the
route which the enemy must follow on his way to the
Hudson. Bridges were broken down, and Wood Creek
rendered unnavignble. The time gained was of great imceived
them of great importance, and very strong, I did not think myself at liberty
to give any orders for an eencuution of them.' "
If the reader is not satisfied that General Schuyler's own words con
firm the charge that he stood in fear of public opinion—that he was
guilty of moral cowardice—what will satisfy?
In this connection, I refer to General Wilkinson's letter to St. Clair,
as to what Schuyler said to him, printed elsewhere in this volume. 6
82 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
portance. A council of officers having decided that Fort
Edward1 was untenable, a position for a fortified camp
was selected by the chief engineer, who, at that time, was
Thaddeus Kosciusko. It was about four miles below, at
Moses's Creek, where the waters of the Hudson River are
separated by an island. During the transfer of the stores
and troops, an attack was made on the picket-guard upon
the Fort Anne road by a detachment of British troops and
Indians. The Americans drove oft' the enemy, and, in
so doing, had thirteen killed and twelve wounded, five of
them mortally. No further attempts were immediately
made by the enemy, and General Schuyler improved the
opportunity to strengthen his position and brigade his
troops. The army was organized into two divisions, and
occupied the opposite sides of the river; the right under
Major-General St. Clair, the left under Major-General
Arnold, who had recently been sent North by General
Washington. The position was a strong one, and, but
for the bad conduct of the Eastern militia, the outlook for
the Americans was most promising. The whole force was
about forty-four hundred, but it was uncertain, on account
of the dissatisfaction of the militia, how long the number
would be kept at that figure. General Schuyler made
very earnest appeals for reinforcements. Under the cir
cumstances, it was deemed expedient to retire from Moses's
Creek and establish a new camp nearer to the base of sup
plies. Accordingly, on the 30th of July, the army with
drew to Saratoga, and on the 2d of August continued its
march to Stillwater. But this proving unsatisfactory, ou
examination, the army took up a new position on the
islands at the confluence of the Mohawk and the Hudson,
a more defensible station.
It had been the purpose of General Burgoyne to send
his corps of Indians to the Connecticut to force a supply
of provisions, to intercept reinforcements, and to alarm
the people of New England. But the removal of the
' ] Washington expressed surprise at this, —further evidence that he
had never been correctly advised of the condition of the Northern
posts.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 83
American forces to the southward led him to change his
plan, and to employ the Indians to prevent, if possible,
by their terror, the Americans from continuing the opera
tions referred to.1 To the credit of Burgoyne, be it said,
he was carrying out, in the employment of the Indians,
the policy of the home government, and that he had no
heart in the business. He attempted to restrain them, by
placing over them priests, and other Canadians of char
acter, but the result was disappointing to him. He
breathed more freely when, further on, his prospects being
less promising, his Indian allies deserted him.
Just as Schuyler was located in his new camp, word was
brought to him that St. Leger, who had been dispatched
by Burgoyne for that purpose, accompanied by Sir John
Johnson's Royal Greens, and a body of Indians, under
Brant, had laid seige to Fort Stanwix, on the Upper Mo
hawk. The post was held by Colonels Gansevoort and
Willett, with two New York regiments. He was informed
that General Herkimer, with a body of the militia of
Tryon county, had advanced to the relief of the garrison.
When within six miles of the fort, Herkimer fell into an
ambush. Though mortally wounded, he supported him
self against a stump, and encouraged his men to the fight.
The resistance was one of the most gallant on record, and
the militia, by the aid of a sally by Willett, succeeded in
repulsing the assailants and in reaching the fort, where they
were warmly welcomed. Four hundred of the militia, in
cluding General Herkimer and many of the leading patri
ots of Tryon county, lost their lives. The result filled the
country with terror. Schuyler saw the necessity of im
mediately relieving the beleagured post, and dispatched
thither Arnold, who volunteered for that service, with
three regiments. The Indians, who had suffered a severe
loss in the fight with the Tryon militia, on hearing of the
approach of the relieving force, deserted in large numbers,
an example followed by St. Leger two days before Arnold
reached the fort, who left his tents standing, and a greater
1 Burqmmi s Xurratiue.
84 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
part of his stores, which fell into the hands of the Amer
icans. After this, very few Indians remained with Burgoyne.
Another piece of good fortune ahout this time came to
cheer the hearts of the Americans, and brighten the pros
pects of the generals of the Northern army. The golden
opportunity for Burgoyne was gone forever. Embar
rassed with heavy artillery and baggage, small progress
had been made from Fort George; and, expected supplies
from Canada failing him, he listened to the seductive wiles
of the Tories, and thought to capture American supplies
at Bennington, and bring back the inhabitants of the
Hampshire Grants to their allegiance to his royal master.1
About the middle of August, Lieutenant-Colonel Baum,
with five hundred men and two pieces of artillery, was
dispatched on a secret expedition to the Connecticut.
Lieutenant-Colonel Brcyman's corps, posted near BattenKill,
was held in reserve to reinforce Baum if the Ameri
cans should be found in force. General Schuyler, hearing
of this expedition, appealed to Colonel Stark, who was in
retirement,2 to rally the militia and intercept the British.
The noble patriot complied. He sent for Warner's regi
ment, encamped at Manchester since the battle of Hubbardton,and
marched to meet the enemy. Six miles from
Bennington, Baum began to intrench, and sent back to
hasten Colonel Brcyman's movements. The next day was
rainy, and both parties contented themselves with skirm
ishing, and awaited reinforcements. The morning of the
16th opened bright and promising. Colonel Stark's men
were impatient for an opportunity to face the enemy. It
is related that he was approached, while yet the rain was
1"The object of your expedition is to try the affections of the
country, to disconcert the councils of the enemy, to mount the TCiedesel's
dragoons, to complete Peters's corps [Tories], and to obtain large
supplies of cattle, horses, and carriages."—From Burgoyne s Instructions
to Lieutenant-Colonel Baum.
2 Colonel Stark had not been promoted, as he deserved, and he re
signed his Continental commission. He accepted the command of the
militia, and served on this occasion on oondition that he should be in
dependent.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 85
fulling, by a Rev. Mr. Allen, of Colonel Symond's regi
ment, and addressed in these words: "General, the peo
ple of Berkshire have often been summoned to the field
without being allowed to fight, and if you do not now
give them a chance, they have resolved never to turn out
again." "Well," said Stark, " do you want to march now
while it is dark and raining?" "Xo, not just now," re
plied the parson. " Well," said Stark, " if the Lord shall
once more give us sunshine, and I do not give you fight
ing enough, I'll never ask you to turn out again." And
fighting enough the men of Berkshire had before the day
was ended.1
Stark's disposition of his forces was admirable. De
tachments were sent in the rear of the enemy, to the
right and the left, to engage the attention and begin the
attack. At the first fire, Stark sprang upon bis horse and
gave the word " Forward !"2 With great impetuosity the
Americans rushed upon the intrenchments, and, after a
confiict, remarkable for the courage displayed on both
sides, succeeded in driving the Hessians out, and captur
ing nearly the whole of them. " It lasted," says Stark in
his letter from Bennington, August 22, " two hours, the
hottest I ever saw in my life—it represented one con
tinued clap of thunder; however, the enemy were obliged
to give way, and leave the field pieces and all their bag
gage behind them. They were all environed within two
breast-works with their artillery, but our martial courage
1 It is related of this Rev. Mr. Allen, in tlie New York Journal of
September 22, 1777, and other contemporary papers, that just before
the attack was made on the intrenchments, in the character of a true
minister of peace, he threw himself between the two armies, assured
the enemy that they were outnumbered and could not escape, and
pathetically exhorted them from a regard to justice to their country
and to their own safety, to surrender, and prevent the effusion of
blood. While he was speaking, with his hat in his hand, a number of
balls were fired at him, some of which passed through his hat; on
which he retired, joined in the attack, and was among the foremost to
enter the enemy's entrenchments.
1 This characteristic speech is put into the Colonel's mouth : "There,
my men, there are the red coats. Before night they are ours, or Molly
.Stark will be a widow."
86 Life and J'ublic Services of Arthur St. Clair.
proved too hard for them." After the first fire, the In
dians who accompanied Baum fled howling 'to the woods.
While the Americans were plundering the camp of the
enemy, Colonel Breyman appeared, hut they were saved
hy the opportune arrival of Colonel Seth Warner's corps
from Bennington. The latter attacked the British rein
forcements, and drove them through the woods for several
miles, capturing two field pieces and all the haggage. The
victory was complete, and, at this stage, of great import
ance to the American cause.1 The loss of the enemy in
killed and wounded was large, and in prisoners about
seven hundred, including thirty-two officers.1 Among the
latter was the brave Colonel Baum, who was mortally
wounded. Four brass field pieces, nine hundred dragoon
swords, and a thousand stand of arms, with ammunition,
were also captured. One hundred of the sons of New
England fell on that August afternoon, but in the moment
of triumph, these were thought of tenderly as blessed
sacrifices in the sacred cause of liberty.
The predictions of Washington and St. Clair that the
enemy could not penetrate far into the interior without
being ruined, were fast being verified. The industry dis
played by the Northern generals was being rewarded, and
it only wanted the hearty co-operation of New England
to effect the destruction of the enemy. Alas ! that co
operation was refused, except upon terms dictated by fac
tion. The Southern members of Congress became alarmed
at the threatening attitude of the East, and thought it
prudent not to stem the torrent.3 Samuel Adams im1
The victories of Bennington and Fort Stanwix are accorded so
much space in American history, because of the inspiriting effect they
had on the Americans. It was seen that the Germans and the Indians
could be defeated, and tho terror they had inspired soon disappeared.
For m^ny anecdotes of the ridiculous fear prevailing in tho minds of
tho Americans before these events, see W'ilkins'm, Vol. I.
2Stark's own report. He gives the number of dead found on the
field as two hundred and seven ; the number of wounded at that time
unknown.
'(7. Morris s Idler to General Schuyler. Hamilton, Vol. I., p. T53. In
July, Schuyler had been under the necessity of dismissing half of the
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Oair. 87
proved the opportunity, and succeeded in carrying out
his long-cherished plan of placing Gates at the head of
the Northern army. Schuyler and St. Clair were ordered
to report at headquarters. The latter complied imme
diately, while the former remained, hoping to be useful
to his successor.
General Gates, who had been clothed by Congress with
extraordinary powers,1 relieved General Schuyler on the
evening of the 19th of August. He was soon joined by
Major-Gcneral Lincoln, with a large body of New England
militia, and General Morgan, with a choice corps of ex
pert riflemen.2 On the 8th of September, the American
army, about six thousand strong, marched for Stillwater,
and on the 12th took possession of a narrow defile formed
by a spur of the hills jutting out close to the river. This
is the ground known as Bemis's Heights, soon tp be the
scene of severe contests with the enemy. General Gates's
right occupied the brow of the hill, near the river, with
which it was connected by a deep intrenchment; his camp,
in the form of a segment of a great circle, the convex to
wards the enemy, extended obliquely to his rear about
three-fourths of a mile, to a knoll occupied by his left; his
front was covered, from the right to the left of the center,
by a sharp ravine running parallel with his line and closely
wooded.5 To the left the ground had been partially cleared,
but the filed trees made it very difficult. The extremi
ties were defended by strong batteries, and the interval
militia of Massachusetts, lest the whole should go. Wilkinson says
the desertions were so numerous as to threaten the destruction of the
army. See correspondence of Schuyler with the Council of Safety of
New York and Wilkinson's Memoirs. Also consult Governor Trumbull's
letter to Baron Vander Capellan, Vol. VI., p. 170, Mass. His. Swiety's
Cullcdion, as to the disaffection of the militia.
1See Journals of Congress and letter of President Hancock to Gates
August 14th.
2Among the officers connected with this corps were LieutenantColonel
Richard llutler and Major H. Dearborn, of whom more here
after.
3 Description by Wilkinson, whose account of the events of the cam
paign is the most complete.
88 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
by a breastwork of logs. General Burgoync, who had
crossed the Hudson on the 15th, advanced on the 17th,
and encamped within two miles of the Americans, on
strong ground. On the 19th, he moved towards the-Ameri
can left, whereupon, Gates ordered Morgan to advance
with his corps and hang on the front and flanks of the
enemy. Having driven in the British skirmishers, the
riflemen advanced too rashly and soon became engaged
with a strong column, and were thrown into confusion.
Cilley's and Seammel's regiments were now ordered out
to march to the left of Morgan and support him. The ac
tion was renewed, and it was found necessary to further
strengthen the American troops. About three o'clock the
action became general, and lasted until night-fall, with
constantly changing fortunes. Late in the afternoon, the
British left being reinforced and pressing the Americans
sharply, General Larned, with his whole brigade, was or
dered out by Gates, and the Americans were thus enabled
to maintain their position. Xight put an end to the con
flict, which had been characterized by great spirit on both
sides. The Americans captured the British artillery a
dozen times, but were unable to carry off the guns. Out of
forty-eight artillerists, thirty-six were killed or wounded.
The American loss was less than three hundred, while that
of the enemy was over five hundred. As the British slept
on the ground, and the Americans withdrew, Burgoyne
claimed a victory, but the advantage was really with Gates.
There is a conflict of authority as to General Arnold's
action on this day. The- Hon. Isaac N. Arnold, in his
entertaining book, " The Life of Benedict Arnold," claims
that General Arnold, unrestrained and unrestrainable,
dashed into the thickest of the fight, encouraging the
troops to the conflict by voice and example. He refers to
a letter of Arnold to Gates, and correspondence of young
Livingston, as his chief authorities. On the other hand,
Wilkinson not only denies this in his Memoirs, but in a
letter to General St. Clair, written from Bemis's Heights
two days after the battle, he says : " General Arnold was
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 89
not out of camp during the whole action."1 The strength of
this testimony lies in its hcing contemporary, and from
the most active member of General Gates's staff. The
statement does not lessen the credit due to Arnold for his
conspicuous services during this important campaign.
While this was in progress, Colonel Brown, of General
Lincoln's command, surprised the British posts at the out
let of Lake George, capturing three hundred prisoners
and several armed vessels and bateaux ; and thence, having
been reinforced by Colonel Johnson, invested Ticonderoga
for four days. Burgoyne's situation was now extremely
critical, as his communications were cut and his provisions
were rapidly diminishing. The armies were so near that
not a night passed without firing, and sometimes concerted
attacks upon the British advanced pickets.2
On the 3d of October, General Burgoyne thought it ad
visable to diminish the soldiers' rations, in order to lengthen
out the provisions.
On the 7th, hearing nothing further from Sir Henry Clin
ton, and the time being nearly expired when he could pru
dently remain in camp, General Burgoyne directed a move
ment to the left of the Americans, not only to discover
whether there were any possible means of forcing a passage,
should it be necessary to advance, or of dislodging his
enemy for the convenience of a retreat, but also to cover a
forage of the army, which was in groat distress on account
of the scarcity.3 The •movement being reported to Gates, by Wilkinson,
the commanding general immediately arranged a plan of
attack. As usual, Morgan was ordered out "to begin the
game." He proposed to make a circuit through the woods
and get possession of the heights on the right of the enemy,
and thence commence his attack so soon as a fire should be
1 St. Clair Papers. In his "Memoirs," Wilkinson says there was not
a single general officer present until General Lamed was ordered out.
" General Arnold not being present in the battle of the 19th Septem
ber." H. It. Livingston to Washington, 14th January, 1778.
2 Burgoyne' s Statement.
*ILid. Appendix LXXXIX.
y
90 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
opened against the left by General Poor, who had been
charged with that duty. The British force consisted of fif
teen hundred regular troops, commanded by General Burgoyne
himself, accompanied by Major-Generals Phillips
and Riedesel, and Brigadier Fraser. The plan of General
Burgox ne was frustrated by a very sudden and rapid attack
on his left by General Poor. Major Ackland's grenadiers
sustained the attack with great resolution, but the Americans
extending the aggressive movement along the front of the
Germans, a second line could not bo formed to support
the grenadiers, and they gave way, Major Ackland being
wounded and taken prisoner, and the artillery captured. In
attempting to save the left line from being entirely carried,
Brigadier-General Fraser was mortally wounded—an irre
parable loss to the British, who at this, moment retreated,
"hard pressed but in good order,'" covered by the troops of
Phillips and Riedesel. " The troops had scarcel}- entered the
camp,'' continues General Burgoyne, "when it was stormed
with great fury, the Americans rushing to the lines under a
severe fire of grape-shot and small arms. The post of the
light infantry, under Lord Balcarras, assisted by some of the
line which threw themselves, by order, into the intrenchmente,
was defended with great spirit ; and the Americans,
led on by General Arnold, were finally repulsed, and the
General wounded; but unhappily the intrench ments of the
German reserve, commanded by Lieutenant-Colonel Breyman,
who was killed, were carried; and the Americans, by
that misfortune, gained an opening on our right and rear.
The night put an end to the action."2
The Americans, flushed with victory, slept on their arms
upon the field of battle. The British, who had lost four
hundred men in k lied, wounded, and prisoner, withdrew
to the hills on the river, and continued ottering battle the whole day of the 8th.s
Being advised that the Americans were marching to turn
1 Burgnyne's Narrative, Appendix XC.
2 Burgoyne's Narrative, Appendix, XCI.
8 Ibid.
3..: ": C ~- £ "-! ~--".-'- *vxr-. ;..r 1,1 - ;• -u._t : -* ..;--
**_-"-?"._-!-•-: "-T £-- - " «-»-s" -T_ Fl-^.'. ~ ." "_J I
TV. - :-r.'t* i. :. * 1 ..".-.MtAl . i '-^ 1 "_•*«•- r -- i. -»." - 1
X T-r~ I " "V - . _ii . .«t-_ - -* " . :"*-- . ^ * _ _ • _ *
t. ..-* ^tr-fi^ \- wj- ^ - - xr-^™. : - Ai-.'-'.iu *-!'" -7 *
i-t -. ".-f :--"7- " ~ :- ^ i - **-. - ."? l-t;~. T.-r
:•- -i-i" ^«r-» " - a..— '— -..-.-- *.»;" ~ —•? - -»* ---~r >:-i
d. - rr - . - £ : -t .-ri - J : t_-r >:l>i" lit i I
t--... -.-;•. - •:- i- _ i- 1 :_- / i ~ -. £.. ..--.- 1. :: _z£r_-
n . "_ " :- - - *-— . t ":_ - -c ~" . . : » -i. i :.\t ;-•.
a. . - j» c : m: :^:L.> .:; ^i; r-. — tt i_"i" :-»r : -. :-C";-
'~ j.-'. z sn~~' ~. :• - *T-'j .-."-. a .^—*_ —. . -
• _ «
!-•» «0: t"-~- !!•- tl-r x: r r i'Sr. A . l~i."t* . I ~~_ Jl
zzr. :•?•'.-: ci" ».-"-• :v "_::r .^r'ti • "~i_ T * -*
e» " ~ia- it• i '. ":-: i.-.:. : ;A_r~- : a — • - ; • r"-k . : _-?-".•-
i-j. " - r^ i : : • - . '. 1 .• i - ii : - j ~ .zz. •j
E:-r _'-rr -£v "-I " - t--~---. x : .; . —>. :: a ~-.--j
~~i ' r i. ~.~~.:.-.? ' r. .«.'.-a.- --«; -- ~.\ ~ x_ . * --~
~~?~ "-r- : "_ "• zu T-t^•. . " x ?-i ~a" \t* i ":.t tIt: .r : - :--
>■ .- II ~ L- Z Z--i XI.- -~t t : . :-.-:•! " t - * ~ ." - . „»
A.t -—j^i^.-. x ::'- !:--:_- ;i---^ : : ^r X r: I. -r.
£-;•„ '. - z .? zn.' --• —.-- j . : .-.: £ i-r : :::•:-.: -.
F.-: Eixir.. II---. i . x : - -* : - — .- . -i ..-. » .
?-"«>r-f. - -—."-z-L :_-•._-..-.- I -.i L L f. .---. —
C - • : x.-_ . r -_•—..;/ ; • - --..-- -r- i
rjz. — -" - • -. -r "-•"_-. *_ £ t *_ .-.I. -t"i
- F - ■£ *wi—».". » " • : -.— : r fc'-r- •'» -..i-' -i> -; 5- -- r- .' :-2- -i
-cti^r i -Of—1 1 i.t i ~r- -.- - . —-: j— ».^ --..:.-- .- •-t -• r: ". _n Zt
92 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
dred and fifty-two men remained of the fine army that
three months before had appeared in such proud array be
fore Ticonderoga. There was surrendered also a large
quantity of artillery, clothing, tents, and military stores of
all kinds.
The promise of St. Clair had been fulfilled. The State
had been saved, and the country roused to a degree of en
thusiasm which no disasters hereafter could wholly allay.
General Gates was raised to a pinnacle of military fame
eclipsing that of Washington. This came near wrecking
all, at a later day. Meanwhile, there were those who ad
mired the courage and sagacity of St. Clair, and who
did not fail to send him congratulations on the result at
Saratoga. The officers of the army improved the oppor
tunity to express their opinions on events, of which this,
from Colonel Baldwin, will suffice: "Give me leave to con
gratulate you," said he, "on the important conquest over
Burgoyne and his army. The capitulation and other par
ticulars you will have by the time this reaches you. I be
lieve the people have by this time, in general, altered their
notion with regard to the evacuation of Ticonderoga. The
officers that I hear speak of it say that a better plan could
not have been adopted, and that nothing but your leaving
that place could have given us this success."1
St. Clair warmly congratulated Gates on the great suc
cess at Saratoga.
A few words more, and we dismiss the subject of Ticonderoga
forever. St. Clair loft the Northern Depart
ment on the 20th August, in obedience to the orders of
Congress, to report at headquarters and await an inquiry
1 St. Clair Paper*.
" It is not my intention to derogate from the merits or services ot
General Gates, which were important ami conspicuous; on the con
trary, it is my opinion that under a change of circumstances the same
causes which degraded General Schuyler would have sunk General
Gates under popular discontent and Congressional anathemas; and,
in such case, all the consequences would have been reversed. But I
shall ever believe that St. Clair laid the foundation of our good for
tune in the Convention of Saratoga." — Wilkinson.
Life ami Public Services of Arthur St. C!a!r. 93
into bis management at the Xorth. He promptly demanded
a court-martial, but that was not forthcoming as speedily
as expected, and, in the interim, he entered actively into
the campaign under Washington. Little did the gallant
soldier, whose character was open and manly, know of the
ingenuity and fertility of secret malice. The examination
of private correspondence of the period shows that this
was not directed against St. Clair on personal grounds,
except in the case of Samuel Adams, who could not for
give him for having dismissed in disgrace two " disorderly
and licentious " regiments. His offense was in the friend
ship of Washington, which was open and faithful. The
saving of his little army for the country, in the face of a
powerful and active enemy, was only a pretext for the un
friendly action that ensued. Washington's downfall was
the object which the original conspirators had in view.
The inquiries presently became suspiciously frequent.
After Schuyler and St. Clair, Putnam. Sullivan, Greene,
and, later, that pure patriot, Robert Morris, fell under the
displeasure of the ruling powers. There were those who
deprecated such proceedings, but as Jay said, in the case
of Schuyler and St. Clair, "few persons possess honesty
or spirit enough openly to defend unpopular merit, and by
their silence permit calumny to gain strength."1
The court-martial was not permitted, and a committee 2
was appointed to collect testimony, but as they could not
find to convict they did not report. The intriguants were
weaving their web. Suspicion of their fell purpose reached
the far South, and Edward Rutlcdge, on Christmas day,
months after the inception of the scheme, in a burst of
honest indignation, says : "I have time to tell you, and
I fear with reason (as it comes North about), that a damned
infamous cabal is forming against our Commander-in1
Life of John Jay, Vol. II., p. 17.
2This committee consisted of Laurens, of South Carolina; John Ad
ams, Dyer, and Folsom, of New England; Roberdeau, of Pennsyl
vania—only one-of the five uncontrolled by New England.
94 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
Chief, and that whenever they shall find themselves strong
enough they will strike an important blow." 1
The activity of St. Clair, at the battle of Brandywine,
and in the discharge of all the important duties in the
field to which Washington assigned him, aroused the mal
contents to renewed activity, and a resolution was adopted
by Congress, in November, permitting him to attend to
" his private aft'airs." St. Clair denounced this in fitting
terms in a letter to Gates. " If they had common hon
esty," said he, " they would have owned that, after five
months spent in searching for an accusation, they had been
unable to find one." "A trial, however," he added, " they
shall give me; be the event what it will, they can not rob
me of that heartfelt satisfaction which is the companion
and reward of virtuous actions."2
Washington was indignant at the treatment of St. Clair.
As early as the 7th October, he suggested to Congress,
through President Hancock, that "it would be well if the
intended inquiry into the conduct of General St. Clair
could be brought to a speedy issue; and, if he is acquitted
to the satisfaction of Congress, that, as his genera] charac
ter as an officer is good, he maybe again restored to the
service."3 No attention being paid to this, in the follow
ing May, in writing to the President, he employed very severe
language. "I most sincerely wish," he said, "that Con
gress would lay the charge, and order the trial of the majorgenerals
in disgrace. St. Clair is exceedingly uneasy and
distressed at the delay; and, wiih pain, I add, that the pro
ceeding, or, wore properly, vot proceeding, in this matter, is
'{.if,- of John Jay, Vol. II., page 17.
"The conspiracy against the Commander-in-Chief was not idle; nor
ivpi" the conspirators less sparing of their machinations and calumnies
ng'inst General Schuyler than they had been against General Wash
ington; and. by force of these. G:iles was again ordered to the comrmnd
of the Northern army, to reap the harvest sown by tlie inde
fatigable efforts of Schuyler, and by the self-sacrifice of his gallant,
but unfortunate coadjutor, St. Clair." —Life of General John Ijumb,
p. 170. • St. Clair Papers.
2The Writings of Washington, Vol. V., p. 86.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 93
looked upon as cruel and oppressive."1 Despite "Washing
ton's indignant protests the tactionists in Congress contin
ued their unjust course, and they were defeated and driven
to action only through the strategy of Gouverneur Morris,2
who, in April, succeeded in getting a committee appointed
under instructions to prefer charges. In September, 1778,
a court martial, of which Major-General Lincoln was pres
ident, was organized, and, altera thorough hearing, a unan
imous verdict was reached, which was expressed in the fol
lowing complimentary terms:
" The Court /taring duly considered the charges against MnjorGeneral
!St. Clair, and the evidence, are unanimously of opin
ion, that he is not guilty »f either of the charges preferred
cgainst him, and do unanimously acquit him of all and every
of them with the hiohest honor."
Schuyler's acquittal, in similar terms, followed four days
later.
At last, then, th's hare justice was rendered these patri
otic officers by their peers, but it was the middle of Decem
ber before Congress formally approved of the finding of the
Court.3
1 Writings if Washington, p. 385.
2 " Putnam will soon be tried. The tifTaiv of Schuyler and St. Clair
labored under awkward circumstances. Their friends and their ene
mies appear to me to have been equally b ind. 1 inclose extracts from
the minutes made the other night to possess myself of the real state of
facts. There are some other entries from time to time. It was erron
eous to order a committee simply to collect fails; they should have
been directed to state charges. This morning, my colleague being ab
sent, I got a committee appointed for the latter purpose: Sherman,
Dana (Mass ), and Drayton (S. C). This was unanimous, and yet I
would have undertaken to argue for it in a style which would abso
lutely have ruined the measure. You know it would have been easy
to say, justice to those injured gentlemen, instead of justice to an injured
country requires it, etc." —Life of John Jay, Vol. II., p. -2
* Despite opposition from the factionists, the proceedings of the
court-martial, which revealed the shameful neglect and the responsi
bility of the Board of War, in the matter of the defense and loss of
the Northern posts, were ordered to be printed. Thus, at last, the
whole case was made public. The reaction was a restoration of St.
Clair to popularity equal to that enjoyed by any, save Washington.
96 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
Congratulations poured in on St. Clair, but the one that
moved him most deeply was this from the noble La Fay
ette :
" I can not tell you how much my heart was interested
in any thing that happened to you, and how I rejoiced, not
that you were acquitted, but that at length your conduct was ex
amined."
It was while actively employed under Washington,
pending the action of Congress, that the acquaintance be
tween St. Clair and La Fayette ripened into close friend
ship—a friendship that never grew cold. " Give my love
to General St. Clair," wrote the warm-hearted Frenchman
to a friend in later years.
Lift and Pttbiie Serrict* of Arthur St. Clair 97
CHAPTER IT.
I7TT-ITS3—St. Claib jotss General Wajhington. and beooxes a MmBEE
or HIS MjUTlBT FaMILT—PABnCIPATES IX THE BaTTLE OF BkaXBTWTTt—IhPOETAXT
SeBTICES SHAEES IX THE SlTTEBIXCS OF VaIJ-ET
FoBGE—>T. ClaIB FAlTHFri. TO WaSHIXGTOX IX THE MlD<T OF CaBALS
—TborBLEs rx the Pexxstlvania Line, and labors of Pbesidext Reed
and St. Claib to awcst theh—Assaclt ox Stoxt Point—Post of
Hoxob held bt St. Claie's Pitisiox. in 1TS0—A CoiuiLssiosrB TO ABeasce
a Cabtel fob Exvh ixge of Pbisoxebs—Tbeasox of Abxolp and
1>eath ©f Andee—St. Olaib sext to cojmand West Point—Offebed
THE COHXAXD OF CoEPS OF LlGHT IxFAXTBT—ReTOLT OF THE PeXXSTLtania
Ltxe—Recectting fob the Final Stbcggle—Marches to SrpPOBT
OF GbEEXE IX SoCTH CaEOUXA—CLOSE OF THE WaR—MrTINT OF
PeXX5TLTAXIA RECEriTS—ALABH IX PHILADELPHIA St. ClaIB sEXT
FOB—CoXGBESS ADJorBXS TO PlHXCETOX.
LVet ns take a look at St. Clair's record while with the
army, making use of his own too brief narrative where it
will answer our purpose. "Although I was. for a consid
erable time, suspended from command, I never left Gen
eral Washington nor the army, and, before the battle of
Brandywine, I suggested to him a measure similar to that
so happily executed at Trenton, and would have been at
tended with similar effects. It had before occurred to him
self (who rarely indeed missed observing any advautage
that could be taken of the enemy"), and he then showed
me General Greene's division in motion to put it into exe
cution, and desired me to attend him to General Arm
strong's quarters (about two miles from Chad's Ford, where
the body of the army was posted) who. with the Pennsyl
vania militia, which he commanded, was to have had a
share in it ; but the Pennsylvania militia were not in readi
ness, and he was obliged to abandon the project. It was
this: while Sir "William Howe was ascending the Brandywine,
to cross it near Birmingham church, General Knvphausen
had been left with a strong corps in front of ouf
army at Chad's Ford, clearly to keep it in check until Sir
7
98 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
William had made good his passage above ; to carry or
disperse that corps was the object. Greene's division was
to descend the river to General Armstrong's quarters, and
that movement would be concealed from Knyphausen by
the thick woods on the river's bank, and being joined by
his division, cross the river there, and fall in the rear of
Knyphausen, while the General, with the corps at Chad's
Ford, should cross at that placeand attack him in front,
which would infallibly oblige Sir William to retrace his
steps: for the loss of that corps he could not bear, and it
was certain he would run every risk to prevent it."
It fell out at Brandywine far otherwise than Washing
ton had hoped for, through false information transmitted
by Sullivan to him. That officer had been dispatched with
three divisions to intercept Cornwallis, who was trying to
reach the American rear, while Knyphausen should
threaten the front by way of Chad's Ford; but, being de
ceived as to the real movements of the enemy for a time,
was late in coming up and forming his line of battle.
While deploying he was attacked by Cornwallis, his
troops thrown into confusion, and a retreat rendered nec
essary. Thereupon, Greene brought up the reserves,
checked the enemy, and covered the retreat. The main
part of the army being thus drawn away, Knyphausen
seized the opportunity to effect the passage of Chad's
Ford, which Wayne was unable alone to successfully re
sist. The Americans withdrew to Chester, the next day
to Philadelphia, and thence to Germantown, where, in a
few days, they met with another reverse. The British loss
at Brandywine was six hundred, and the American con
siderable more. In this affair St. Clair had a horse shot
under him, and Pulaski, who served as a volunteer, showed
such zeal and courage in collecting the scattered troops
and covering the retreat, that, upon Washington's recom
mendation he was appointed to the command of the horse,
with the rank of Brigadier-General.1
In the skirmishing that followed the battle of Brandy
wine, St. Clair had his share, but in the action of German1
Hildreth, Vol. III., p. 219.—Journals of Congress.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 99
town he had no part, as he had received permission to
visit his family.1
Another object which this absence embraced, was to try
and get a hearing before Congress. In writing to Presi
dent Hancock on the movements of the army, General
Washington took occasion to refer him to General St.
Clair, " who has been constantly with the army for some
time past," for fuller information.2
"We find him with the army again in November, render
ing General Washington such service as he could without
the command of a division. The Commander-in-Chief, in
a letter to the President of Congress, dated at Whitemarsh,
17th November, referred to him in the following
terms :
" As the keeping possession of Red Bank, and thereby
still preventing the enemy from weighing the chevaux-defrise
before the frost, obliges their ships to quit the river,
has become a matter of the greatest importance, I have
determined to send down General St. Clair, General Knox,
and Baron de Kalb, to take a view of the ground, and to
endeavor to form a judgment of the most probable means
of securing it. They will, at the same time, see how far
it is possible for our fleet to keep their station since the
loss of Fort Mifflin, and also make the proper inquiry into
the conduct of the captains of the galleys mentioned in
the former part of this letter."
The report of the officers was to the effect that keeping
possession of the Jersey shore at or near Red Bank, was
of the last importance. In accordance with this, rein
forcements were sent under the command of General
Greene.3
St. Clair shared in the trials and sufferings of the army
at Valley Forge,4 and during the winter, at the request of
1 St. Clair's Narrative. —Appendix.
* Washington's Writings, Vol. V, p. 71.
* Washington's Writings. Vol. V., p. 163—note.
*" Hungry and cold were the poor fellows who had so long been
keeping the field; for provisions were scant, clothing worn out, and so
badly off for shoes, that the footsteps of many might be tracked in
100 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
Washington, in common with other of the general officers,
submitted suggestions for the reform of the Quartermaster
and Commissary Departments, which, owing to the in
efficiency of General Mifflin, head of the former, and the
interference of Congress in the latter,1 had been thrown
into the most deplorable condition. The reforms recom
mended by the officers were generally adopted, and MajorGeneral
Greene being appointed Quartermaster-General,
and Colonel Wadsworth Commissary, order was restored
to their respective departments, food and clothing were
obtained, and the clouds once more disappeared—to return
later, blacker than before—for the Americans. That he
should succeed in keeping together an army under such
circumstances, is evidence of the genius and tact and
marvelous personal influence of Washington. Phila
delphia being in possession of the enemy, the demoraliza
tion of the people, was wide-spread, and, but for the timely
assistance voted by the French government, it would have
left but a few devoted patriots here and there to sustain
the cause. Sir Henry Clinton anticipated the arrival of
the French fleet,2 and withdrew from Philadelphia in June,
following the usual line through the Jerseys leading to
New York.8
Washington followed in pursuit, hoping to improve
some favorable opportunity to strike a blow. La Fayette,
who was most zealously in favor of active operations, was
given the post of honor, and instructed to press hard on
blood. Yet at this very time we are told, ' hogsheads of shoes, stock
ings, and clothing, were lying at different places on the roads and in
the woods, perishing for want of teams, or of money to pay the teamssters.'"—Irving,
Vol. III., p. 352.
1 By the removal of the head in the midst of the campaign in op
position to remonstrances from General Washington.
2 The French fleet under Count O'Estaing arrived off the mouth of
the Delaware, on the 8th of July. The assistance rendered this season
was disappointing.
* His army was about twelve thousand strong, and was not incum
bered with any except necessary baggage and provisions. The rest of
the baggage, and about three thousand Pennsylvanians who adhered
to the royal cause, were sent around to New Yo^k by water.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 101
that part of Clinton's army moving on the high Grounds.
General Charles Lee, who had recently returned to the
army, had opposed an aggressive movement, but thinking
better of it, by virtue of his rank, extended his command
over the troops under La Fayette in the advance. On the
28th of June, Washington sent word to Lee to attack the
enemy, who were encamped at Monmouth Court House,
and promised to support that attack with the whole army.
Upon advancing in accordance with this plan, he met Lee
retreating.1 Sharp words' ensued between the two Gen
erals, and the line was reformed by Washington's com
mand. A sharp engagement ensued which lasted until
dark, without advantage to either side.3 The British with
drew to Nevisink, and took up a strong position, from
which the American General thought best not to attempt
to dislodge them. St. Clair participated in this engage
ment, and continued with the army without regularly
assigned duties, until, restored by the vindication of the
court-martial and the action of Congress, he was placed
in command of a division composed of the Pennsylvania
line.
The winter of 1779 found American affairs at a very low
ebb. Washington's headquarters were at Middlebrook in
the Jerseys; Putnam was at Danbury, and McDougall in
the Highlands. This starving, suffering army .was about
all that was left of the " United Colonies," having organ
ized form, and it, owing to neglect and arrearages in pay,
1 This led to an ill-tempered correspondence on the part of Lee, to
his arraignment and trial on charges preferred by Wayne and other
officers, and suspension from command. Thus another of the Cabal
was eclipsed. Mifflin had been retired, Conway's resignation accepted,
and ere long Gates was to meet with defeat and disgrace. Even in
these dark days there was a God in Israel, and virtue, though often
sorely tried, was trinmphant.
2The American loss in killed, wounded, and disabled, by heat was
two hundred; that of the British three hundred. But this march
proved very disastrous to the British, as over fifteen hundred Ger
mans, who had been so pleased with Pennsylvania as to contract mar
riages or form other attachments there, deserted, and afterwards be
came good citizens of the commonwealth of the Penns.
102 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
which were attempted to be liquidated in worthless money,
was on the verge of dissolution. Congress was only the
shadow of a legislative body; corrupt, without ability,
without means, without power to levy taxes or to control
the action of the Colonies. In a word, there was no gov
ernment, and the lawlessness and injustice inseparable from
such a situation were manifest on every hand. This is
clearly shown in the St. Clair MSS. One of his corre
spondents, who had an invalid wife, was unable to go to
Philadelphia because of the terror created by banditti who
infested the country. Pennsylvania was filled with dissen
sions. There were the Constitutionists and the anti-Constitutionists,
jealous of each other, striving to get control
of the State, whose strifes produced a condition of anarchy.
A few men like James "Wilson, Edward Biddle, and Joseph
Reed, are seen to rise superior to their environment, and
patriotically struggle for a restoration of law and the forms
of government. Reed is chosen President, and henceforth
during the war there is vigor in the Executive Council.1
The effect of this change on the Pennsylvania troops will
be seen from the correspondence of St. Clair, printed in
this work. He and other officers in the Pennsylvania line
were stoutly opposed to the Constitution of 1776, which they
thought defective, and as containing " principles unfavorable
to liberty, which must inevitably, sooner or later, end in a
tyranny of the worst kind ; " 2 but they regarded as impoli
tic all attempts to change it while the people were engaged
in a contest with Great Britain, and, though anti-Constitutionists,
their influence was given to the party of the Con
stitution as the party of law and order in a time of gruat
danger. This influence was sufficient to compel the Assem
bly to recognize and support the form of government under
1The services of President Reed were so important to the cause at
this period as to entitle him to a high place among the patriots of the
Revolution, and condemn as ungenerous all attempts to revive the
suspicion, one time entertained, of his loyalty to the Commander-inChief.
* St. Clair Papers.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 108
the revolutionary Constitution.1 We shall see that when
the war was over, and St. Clair and Wayne were restored to
civil life, they labored to amend the Constitution, but for
some time without success.
The letters of St. Clair at this period show a manly, pa
triotic spirit, a freedom from captiousness and ill-temper
rarely met with at a time when there was so much to com
plain of, so little to keep alive faith in the justice of Prov
idence. In letters of the 5th and 6th of March, to Presi
dent Reed, describing the sufferings of, and the spirit of
defection among the Pennsylvania troops, his devotion
to the cause is made clear. " I am sure," he says, " I need
not press you on this head, but give me leave to repeat
that it is necessary something should be done immediately,
or there is too much reason to fear the dissolution of our
part of the army. No exertions of mine shall be wanting
to prevent so great a calamity; and, though it is a misfor
tune to have come to the command of it at this trying
period, if I can steer happily through it, and render any
service to my country, I shall not regret an}- pains it will
cost me." The subordinate officers were, at times, almost
mutinous, and the impatience of such splendid soldiers as
Butler and Hurmar would be injudiciously displayed in
correspondence. In the midst of all of the trials, St. Clair
remained serene, and, by his kindness and tact, not only
kept the Pennsylvania line from dissolution, but its num
bers in excess of others of the army. It was from St.
Clair's division the soldiers were taken to head the columu
that assaulted the works at Stony Point.2
1 The first Assembly refused to appoint a Council, and in that body,
in 1778, there was an active minority pledged to a change in the form
of government. They refused to take the oath except with the reser
vation that it was not to prevent the adoption of measures for calling
a Convention to change the Constitution. A resolution was adopted
to submit the question to the people, but that resolution was the causa
of the defeat of the scheme. Before the time fixed for the election,
the Assembly, which had met in February, 177'J, had received so many
remonstrances from the people as to be influenced to rescind the reso
lution providing for the election by an almost unanimous vote.
2f'olonnl Richard Butler commanded the left column, and Lieuten-
104 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
The story of that most brilliant exploit of the War of
Independence is familiar to every reader, and need not be
repeated here. Immediately upon receipt of the pleasing
intelligence of the success of the assault, St. Clair congrat
ulated his frii'hd General Wayne and those who shared in
the glory.
St. Clair's correspondence with General Washington
will show that his division held the post of honor through
out 1780, and that his services were arduous and valuable.
Detachment of the enemy having crossed over from Staten
Island on the ice to the Jersey shore, and entered Elizabethtown
and Newark on the night of the 25th of Janu
ary, surprised the small garrison,1 captured four officers
and sixty privates, burnt several buildings, and plundered
the inhabitants, General Washington directed General St.
Clair to repair to the lines and make a thorough investiga
tion into the causes of the " misfortune and disgrace." He
also instructed him to endeavor to find out whether it
would be possible to retaliate upon the enemy. On this
latter head St. Clair ascertained that the British garrison
on Staten Island had been reinforced so that it was two
thousand strong, and that so long as there was an easy
passage between the Island and the city a successful offen
sive operation from the Jersey shore was impracticable, as
was shown when Lord Stirling attempted a surprise on the
15th. He suggested that the intercourse between the in
habitants of Jersey and the British on the Island should be
stopped. The disgraceful surprise at Newark and Elizaant-Colonel
Lewis Fleury, a very brave French soldier, whose defense
of Fort Mifflin is known to every reader of American history, the
right. At the head of each was a forlorn hope of twenty men. Lieu
tenant James fiibbons, of the Sixth Pennsylvania regiment, com
manded that under Colonel Fleury, and entered the work with three
men, having lost seventeen. Lieutenant Knox, of the Ninth Penn
sylvania, led the other, under Colonel Butler, and was more fortunate
in saving his men. Lieutenant-Colonel Meigs, who commanded the
Eastern troops in the assault, was destined to come forward more
prominently, though not more gallantly, in the future.
1 These garrisons belonged to the command of Colonel Moses Hazen.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 105
beth was due to negligence in not having a patrol out at the
proper time.
Early in March, Major-General St. Clair and LieutenantColonels
Edward Carrington and Alexander Hamilton were
authorized to meet commissioners on the part of the en
emy for the purpose of settling a general cartel for an ex
change of prisoners. The British government having
failed to obtain additional recruits in Germany, Sir Henry
Clinton was instructed to use all available means for effect
ing an exchange of all of the prisoners. There were those
who entertained hopes that, under the pressure of their
necessities, the enemy would make a just recognition of
the independence of the Colonies in an honorable exchange,
but Washington was not one of these. His instructions to
the commissioners were to " transact nothing but upon
principles of perfect equality, and on a national ground."
When the commissioners met at Amboy, it was soon as
certained that the enemy would not treat on mutual
ground, and the American commissioners at once put an
end to the negotiation.1 Afterwards, there was an informal
conversation as to an exchange on admissable terms, and,
after separation, this discussion was continued, in an in
teresting correspondence, by General St. Clnir, on the part
of the Americans, and Major-General Phillips, on that of
the British. Courtesies, as to individual officers, were ex
tended on both sides, and something accomplished towards
a better understanding.
In the movements to check Sir Henry Clinton, after his
return to the North from victorious fields in Georgia and
South Carolina ; and in the discussion of plans for the re
duction of New York and Canada, in conjunction with the
French allies, St. Clair had his full share. A reference to
" Observations " on the situation, submitted to the Comman
der-in-Chief, will show how thoroughly he understood the
situation, and the conservative character of his opinions.
When the country was startled by the treason of Arnold,
General Washington immediately directed General St. Clair
1The report of the commissioners was communicated by Washing
ton to Congress, on the 31st March. —Sparks, Vol. VII., p. 1.
106 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
to take the command at West Point, and to put the several
posts in a state of defense to guard against a possible move
ment by the enemy. It became his sad duty, as a member
of the Court to try Major Andre, the victim of Arnold's
treason, to declare that that meritorious and virtuous offi
cer' had incurred the penalty of death.1
Undoubtedly it had been Washington's intention to leave
St. Clair in command at West Point and the district on the
east side of the North River, but Greene asked for it, and
it was never the policy of Washington to deny him any
thing.2 A re-arrangement of troops became necessary.
Greene was given two divisions, consisting of Jersey, New
York, and New England troops, and was requested to
march and relieve the Pennsylvania Hue as expeditiously
as possible. "St. Clair waits till he is relieved by a MajorGeueral,"
wrote Washington, and he " is directed to move
the second Pennsylvania brigade and Meig's regiment to
•The Court to try Andre was composed of Generals Greene, Stirling,
St. Clair, La Fayette, Howe, Steuben, Parsons, James Clinton, Knox,
Glover, Patterson, Hand, Huntington, Stark, and Lawrenca General
Greene was made President. A solemn stillness fell upon these officers
as the young and graceful Adjutant-General of the British Army was
ushered into their presence. " It is not possible to save him, and yet
we would gladly save him." said Steuben, after the verdict. How
could it be done ? The brave young man, scorning a lie or subterfuge,
promptly denied that he had entered the American lines under protec
tion of a flag, and so each member of the Court, under military law,
was constrained to pronounce judgment in those words: " He (Andre)
is to be considered a spy, and according to the laws and usages of na
tions ought to suffer death."
2Greene to Washington : "A new disposition of the army going to
be made, and an officer appointed to the command of West Point and
the district on the east side of the North River, I take the liberty
just to intimate my inclination for the appointment. Your Excellency
will judge of the propriety, and determine as the honor of the army
and the good of the service may require. I hope there is nothing in
delicate or improper in the application," and thereupon proceeded to
show that the freedom of the country and Washington's reputation
and glory were inseparably connected. Greene was as accomplished
as a courtier as a soldier.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 107
the army, as soon as a sufficient corps arrives to replace
them." »
In the preceding month, however, Washington had paid
St. Clair a handsome compliment, in offering to him the
command of the Corps of Light Infantry 2 which was be
ing organized. He had formed a plan to attack New YoTk
upon Sir Henry Clinton's departure for Rhode Island, a
scheme in which La Fayette took a deep interest. " The
command of it for the campaign," said Washington, " is
promised to the Marquis de La Fayette, for reasons which
I dare say will be to you obvious and satisfactory. If we
attack New York, the part which this corps will take will
make it a most desirable command. Should it be agreeable
to you to take it until the return of this gentleman, which
is uncertain, it would give me great pleasure. I wish you,
however, to consult your delicacy, and determine without
the least restraint." The offer, said St. Clair, a quarter of
a century later, in his reminiscences, " was most joyfully
accepted, nor could he have contrived to have done me a
more grateful favor, nor in a more gracious manner. The
sudden return of Sir Henry prevented the attempt, and
the Marquis soon after returned to his command."
About this time, a serious cause of embarrassment arose
in the Pennsylvania line, which threatened to put an end
to the long-time friendship between Generals St. Clair and
Wayne, and leave the regiments without officers.3 Major
1 Sparks, Vol. VII., p. 233. The first brigade of the Pennsylvania
line had marched to join the army some days before.
2"The Corps of Light Infantry consisted of six battalions, each com
posed of eight companies selected from the different lines of the army.
These battalions were arranged in two brigades, one of which was
commanded by General Hand, and the other by General Poor. The
Light Infantry was stationed in advance of the main army."—Sparks.
3 " There is a matter now in the Pennsylvania line, which originated
by the appointment of Major McPherson to the command of one of
the Light Infantry battalions, that I fear will be attended with some
serious and disagreeable consequences between General St. Clair and
General Wayne. One time the matter got so high that I really appre
hended the loss of your whole line."—General Greene, to President Jiecd,
August 29, 1780.
108 Life and Public Services of Arthur Si. Clair.
McFherson, a meritorious officer, had been appointed to tbe
command of a corps detached from the Pennsylvania line,
by General Washington. This gave great offense to the
officers in line of promotion, and they had the sympathetic
support of Generals Wayne and Irvine, and Colonel Kichard
Butler. Their resentment extended to St. Clair, who
stood loyally by the Commander-in-Chief,1 although in sym
pathy with his subordinate officers. To Colonel Butler he
wrote in persuasive, but earnest words. He could not rec
oncile himself to the thought that so many brave, virtuous,
and good officers proposed leaving the service of their
country, and throwing their well-earned laurels to the
ground, and sacrificing their future peace to a punctilio.
He declined to ask Major McPherson to resign, and said
that the Commander-in-Chief .ought not to recede;2 but
he suggested that the officers address a memorial to Gen
eral Washington, setting forth their grievances, and offering
their services until the campaign was over. This sugges
tion was adopted, harmony was restored, and the Com
mander-in-Chief presented the matter to Congress. The
result was the adoption of new regulations, and the correc
tion of some of the abuses that existed in the army, which
prevented the dissolution that threatened.
It is impossible for one at the present day, living in the
midst of a vast and wealthy country, surrounded by inex
haustible supplies of the necessaries and luxuries of life,
to conceive of the extent of the destitution and suffering
of the Revolutionary army in the years 1779, 1780 and
1 General Wayne, who had aided in fomenting the difficulty, when
he found that General Washington remained firm hy the principle he
had established, felt called on to vindicate himself, and thought the
best way to do that was to insinuate that St. Clair was unfriendly to
him. This mischievous effort was properly rebuked by Washington,
in a letter which will be found elsewhere in this work. Wayne's char
acter was not as frank and manly as one would wish to meet with in
so good a soldier. He was envious, ambitious, and given to intrigue.
Sparks says : 'General Wayne and General Irvine had used all their
efforts to quell the storm." We are satisfied this is untrue, so far as
Wayne is concerned.
• St. Clair Papers.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 109
1781 . There was no money, and no provision of law for
taxation ; the imaginary value of the paper issues was de
stroyed by enormous volumes of counterfeit promises ,to
pay ; the crops were poor, and other resources were un
available; extortion run riot and sucked up the lifo-blood
of the poor, until labor could not command enough paper
to buy the bare necessaries of life ; those that had been
wealthy were plunged into the depths of poverty, while the
few corrupt became possessed of houses and lands. With
out means, how could the army be fed and sustained in the
field? If patriotism had sufficed—if it had been provisions
and clothing and powder and ball, no army had been better
provided. But alas! this could only endure cold and
hunger in camp, and bleed upon the field of battle. "I
can assure you with great truth," wrote General Irvine of
St. Clair's division in May, 1780, "that many officers have
lived some time on bread and water rather than take any
scanty allowance from the men." Whole regiments had
spent the winter—the coldest for many years—without
blankets. Even Washington had about ceased to hope :
"I see nothing before us but accumulating distress," wrote
he to a friend. " We have been half of our time without
provisions, and are likely to continue so. We have no
magazines nor money to form them. We have lived upon
expedients until we can live no longer."1 Said Greene, at
that time : " The great man is confounded at his situation,
but appears to be reserved and silent."3 Out of this re
serve came plans for the future, and appeals which finally
brought the leading men in the different States to the front
again. New measures for supplies were adopted; new
financial legislation, not always wise, was devised ; and bills
were drawn on agents in Europe. France herself, with de
ranged finances, and the accumulated wrongs of centuries
threatening chaos, was America's salvation.
It is not surprising that out of this poverty and suffering
there came revolt. On the night of 1st January, 1781, the
Pennsylvania troops, under General Wayne, stationed at
1 RjmsivJ.i Life of Washmgton, p. 1 63.
'In a letter to President Reed, May 10, 1780.
110 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
Morristown, broke into open mutiny, and after a straggle
with some of their officers, in which one was killed and
several wounded,1 marched for Princeton under the leader
ship of a board of sergeants. Wayne furnished them with
supplies to keep them from plundering, and with Colonels
Stewart and Butler became a voluntary prisoner, hoping
to obtain some influence over them. The avowed cause
of the mutiny was a difference between the men and the
officers as to the term of enlistment. The former held that
the enlistment was for three years or the war; and the
latter that it was for three years and the war. The men
demanded, in writing, a discharge to all that had served
three years; an immediate payment of all sums due; and
that in future all who remained in service should be paid
in real money. This demand they purposed to lay before
Congress, with arms in their hands to enforce it.
St. Clair and La Fayette, who were at Philadelphia, has
tened to the scene and were admitted within the lines, but
were not permitted to have any intercourse with the men,
and were soon afterwards commanded to leave by the board
of sergeants. To prevent a further spread of the defection,
General St. Clair proceeded to Morristown, and gave as
surances to the soldiers that remained of future considera
tion. He directed them to be collected and marched to
Persipenny ; sent the remaining artillery and ammunition
to Luckysunny, and then reported to General Washington,2
who approved of what had been done.3
Immediately after the revolt the British *howed great
activity, and Sir Henry Clinton sent a considerable force to
Staten Island, whence two emissaries were sent to the camp
of the malcontents. These, however, were given up through
the influence of two of the sergeants, bribed thereto by
General Wayne, and were subsequently tried and executed
as spies.
Meanwhile, a Congressional Committee, at the head o£
1Captain Billings was killed and Captain Talbot mortally wounded.
2St. Clair Papers. Sparks, Vol. III., p. 197, Correspondence.
« Writings of Washington, Vol. VII., p. 3fi3.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. Ill
which was General Sullivan, accompanied by President
Reed, proceeded to Trenton and opened negotiations with
the sergeants. The situation was truly alarming, as it was
uncertain how far the defection extended to other lines.
On this account, "Washington abandoned his first formed
purpose to proceed to Princeton, and, instead, resolved on
severe measures. He directed General St. Clair to proceed
to the Pennsylvania side opposite Trenton and send for the
Congressional Committee to meet him for a conference. If
there were no reasonable hopes of a compromise, then get
the opinion of the Committee as to what policy should be
adopted. If coercive measures were decided on, then make
ulterior arrangements for militia with President Reed and
Governor Livingston to co-operate with a thousand Conti
nental troops which he should send from the army.1 This
painful course was found not to be necessary, as terms,
which included the demands of the mutineers, were con
ceded by the Congressional Committee and President Reed.
These were communicated to General "Washington by Gen
eral Sullivan, who assured him that no concession had been
made that tbe critical situation of affairs did not warrant
and justice dictate.3
Men and means not being forthcoming from the States,
as promised, Washington put forth the most earnest appeals
and resorted to measures which showed the desperate straits
to which the cause had now fallen. The recruiting was put
into new hands. To St. Clair he intrusted the work of fill
ing Pennsylvania's quota. The order was loyally obeyed,
although the field was more inviting. The difficulties, de
lays, and vexations, will be found fully described in the St.
Clair papers. When finally enrolled, clothed, and equipped,
the troops were sent to Virginia to join the Marquis de La
Fayette.
St. Clair still hoped for active work immediately under
- Washington, and he confidently expected the command of
1 St. Clair Papers. Writings of Washington, Vol! VII. p. 364.
2 Sparks''s Correspondence Rev., Vol. III. p. 198.
/
112 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
the army,1 but the exigencies of the campaign determined
otherwise. How all this came about we shall tell in his
own words:
"When the army marched to the southward, I was left
in Pennsylvania to organize and forward the troops of that
State and bring up the recruits that had been raised there.
The command of the American army was kept open for mo.
the General intending to take upon himself, formally, the
command of the allied army, which hitherto he had only
done actually. After having sent off the greatest part of
that line under General Wayne, and on the point of follow
ing them, Congress became alarmed that some attempt on
Philadelphia would be made from New York, in order to
divert General Washington from his purpose against Lord
Cornwallis, and they ordered me to remain with the few
troops I had left, to which it was purposed to add a large
body of militia, and to form a camp on the Delaware: of
this I immediately apprised General Washington, who h.id
written to me, very pressingly, to hasten on the reinforce
ments from that State; informing me of the need he had of
them, and, as he was pleased to say, of my services also.
He wrote again, on the receipt of my letter, in a manner still
more pressing, and I laid that letter before Congress, who,
after considerable delay and much hesitation, revoked their
order, and I was allowed to join the army before Yorktown,
1"September 21st, 1781. At 1 p. m. I waited on the President of the
State of Pennsylvania at his house in Market street, and met there Mr.
Peters and Mr. Cornell, of the Board of War, General St. Clair, General
Irvine, and General Irwin, of the militia. This conference lasted a
considerable time, and in its consequences took up the rest of the day.
I pave it as my opinion that Sir Henry Clinton did not intend for this
city; nevertheless, as the inhabitants are alarmed and uneasy, I agreed
to the propriety of being prepared, although I lamented the expense
such preparation would put us to. I advised the placing a garrison at
Mud Island, and putting that placo in posture of defense, and men
tioned the plan proposed to me by Mr. Paine1 of collecting immedi
ately one quarter's rent from all the houses in Philadelphia in order to
havo an immediate supply of money to defray the expenses.—Diary of
Robert Morris, Vol. XI. p. 473.
1 Themas Painc, whe huii just returned from France.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 113
but did not reach it until the business was near]}- over, the
capitulation having been signed in five or six days alter my
arrival. From thence I was sent with six regiments and
ten pieces of artillery, to the aid of General Greene in
South Carolina, with orders to sweep, in my way, all the
British posts in North Carolina; but they did not give me
trouble, for, on my taking a direction towards Wilmington,
they abandoned that place and every other post they had in
that country, and left me at liberty to pursue the inarch by
the best and most direct route; and on the 27th of Decem
ber, I joined General Greene, near Jaeksonburgh."
We get a glimpse of this march through the South in
the journal kept by Lieutenant Denny,1 and Greene re
cords their airival at camp, at Round O, on the 4th of Jan
uary, 1782, "weary from their long march, and greatly di
minished in numbers."2 If a tramp of two months through
an uninteresting country bad diminished the numbers, what
was to be expected of service through the summer months
on the bank of Ashley River? In September following,
Lieutenant Denny makes this cheerful entry in his journal:
"Our camp very thin; not more than three reliefs of offi
cers and men for the ordinary duties. Hospitals crowded,
and great many sick in camp ; deaths so frequent, the
funeral ceremony dispensed with. Provisions scarce and
very indifferent; the beeves brought from the back counties
of North Carolina, by the time they reach the camp, poor
indeed, and must be unwholesome. Commissary's yard
nud slaughter place commonly short distance from camp.
Soldier going there in morning, about killing time, met his
comrade returning in; asked how was the beef this morn
ing? Other replied that it took two men to hold up the
creature until the butcher knocked it down. Says the
other, 'And why did n't be knock it down as it lay?'"3
1 Ebeneezer Denny, afterwards Major in the United States Army,
and Aid to St. Clair, in 1791. We shall hear from this meritorious
officer frequently hereafter.
1 Life of General Nathaniel Greene, Vol. III.
2 Military Journal, p 251.
S
114 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair,
St. Clair had been spared this bit of ghastly lnimor by
returning to his family in the summer. The war was virtually
over, and he could return home with propriety, con
scious of having done his whole duty throughout the ar
duous struggle for Independence. Before cloning this
chapter, however, we must refer to correspondence of an
interesting character that passed between General Wash
ington and General St. Clair during the progress through
Virginia. The latter had written of his plans and the diffi
culties that beset him, and received from his ever-generous
friend a most appreciative letter.
"The difficulties," writes Washington, "of which you
speak are such as I feared, but such as I feel confident the
resources of your genius will surmount. ... If your
attempt should fail, whatever may be the censures of the
people at the moment, I doubt not that your character will
eventually obtain that justice which I Hatter myself your
conduct will ever merit—an instance of which you have
already had in the course of the war."
"Nothing," writes St. Clair in answer, "could have been
more acceptable to me than the manner in which your Ex
cellency has been pleased to speak of my conduct."
While St. Clair was engaged in closing up the accounts
and furloughing the veteran soldiers, in 1783, the new levies,
stationed at Lancaster, refusing to accept their discharges
without immediate pay, mutinied and marched for Phila
delphia, for the avowed purpose of compelling Congress'to
accede to their demands. The mutineers were reinforced
by the recruits in the barracks of Philadelphia, and, as they
marched to the hall where Congress was in session, they
numbered three hundred. Their demand was made in very
peremptory terms, that, " unless their demand was com
plied with in twenty minutes, they would let in upon them
the injured soldiery, the consequences of which they we're
to abide." Word was immediately sent to General St.
Clair, and his presence requested. After hearing a state
ment of the facts by him, Congress directed him to en
deavor to march the mutineers to their barracks, and to
announce to them that Congress would enter into no delib
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 115
eration with them ; that they must return to Lancaster,
and that there, and only there, they would he paid.1 After
this, Congress appointed a committee to confer with the ex
ecutive of Pennsylvania, and adjourned. The members
passed through the files of the mutineers, without being
molested.
The committee, with Alexander Hamilton as chairman,
waited on the State Executive Council ; but, receiving no
promise of protection, on the 24th of June, advised an
adjournment of Congress to Princeton. The day after
their arrival there, a resolution was passed directing Gen
eral Howe to march fifteen hundred troops to Philadelphia
to disarm the mutineers and bring them to trial. Before
this force could reach Philadelphia, St. Clair and the Execu
tive Council had succeeded in quieting the disturbance with
out bloodshed. The principal leaders were arrested, obedi
ence secured, after which Congress granted a pardon. The
resolution directing General Howe to move with the troops,
gave offense to General St. Clair, who regarded it as an
attempt to supersede him in his command. Thereupon,
he addressed a sharp letter to the President of Congress,
who very considerately refrained from laying it before that
body. Explanations followed, showing that St. Clair had
misconstrued the order, and peace prevailed once more.
1 'J he Republic, Vol. II., p. 562.
116 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
CIiAPTER V.
1783-1787—Reti'rx to Civil Life—Loss of Fortune —Engages in' Busi
ness—A Member of the Board of Censors—Elected a Delegate to
CoNORKSS FROM PHILADELPHIA CoCNTY—CHOSEN PRESIDENT OF THE
last Continental Congress—Great Gift to Freedom —History of
the Ordinance of 1787—St. Clair Elected Governor of the North
western Territory.
When General St. Clair got time to look into his private
affairs, he found himself ruined financially. The mill
which he had left in Westmoreland for the use and benefit
of the inhabitants of that part of the country, was found
to be in ruins—an evidence that beneficiaries do not always
feel themselves bound morally to make any return for favors
voluntarily eonfeired. St. Clair mentions having lost
£20,000 on one piece of resil estate alone. The comforta
ble fortune, and the valuable offices, which were all his in
1775, and eight years of the prime of life were all gone—
all given freely, and without a regret, for freedom and a
republic.
In 1783, St. Clair was elected a member of the Council
of Censors, a body provided for in the Constitution of 1776,
and charged with the duty of inquiring whether the Con
stitution had been preserved inviolate; whether the legis
lative and executive branches of government had performed
their duty as guardians of the people; and whether the
taxes had been properly laid, collected, and expended. The
Council could call a new constitutional convention only
by a two-thirds vote. St. Clair was elected from the county
of Philadelphia, and he had for a colleague that eminent
citizen, Frederick A. Muhlenburg. The names of other
distinguished friends are found on the roll of Censors.
From the city of Philadelphia, came Thomas Fitzsimmons;
from the county of Chester, Anthony Wayne; from
Cumberland, William Irvine; and from York, Thomas
Hartley.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 117
St. Clair was an active member of this body, participat
ing in the debates anil in the committee work.1 A largo
number of the reports of the minority were. written by him,
and they display a breadth of opinion and a familiarity
with law and the principles of government highly credit
able. He was made a member of the committee " appointed
to report those articles of the Constitution which are ma
terially defective and absolutely require alteration and
amendment." This committee adopted an elaborate report,
drafted by St. Clair, and attempted to secure the passage of
a resolution calling a new constitutional convention, but
although their report was supported by a majority of the
Censors, it could not command the necessary two-thirds.
Thereupon, an address to the people, setting forth the facts,
was issued by those in favor of a new convention. There
was astrong party feeling displayed throughout the sessions
of this Council, but an examination of its labors does not
conie within the designs of this work.3
St. Clair was also elected to the oifice of Yendue-master
of Philadelphia—an honorable, and very lucrative posi
tion, through which the public revenues were received at
that time. His transactions were with the State Controller.3
In the confusion resulting from revolution, there was a vast
amount of property to be sold, from which the State de
rived a revenue.
February 20, 1786, St. Clair first attended Congress, as a
delegate from Pennsylvania, and, on Friday, February 2,
1737, he was elected its President. This was a recognition
of the ability of the man, rather than the patriotism which
made him a soldier of the Revolution. As the work of the
session of 1787 was scarcely excelled in importance by the
1 These names will be found always associated together in the pro
ceedings of the Council of Censors: Arthur St. Clair, Fred. A. Muhlen
berg, John Aindt, James Moore, Anthony Wayne, David Espy, Thomas
Fitz-immons, Thomas Hartley, Richard McAllister. Occasionally Will
iam Irvine voted with the others.
2 The reader is referred to "The Proceedings relative to Calling the Con
ventions of 1770 ami 1700, and the Council of Censors."—Harrisburg, 1825.
•This should not be confounded with the position of auctioneer, as
known at the present day.
115 L'fi - - " P« ' - Strclx* of Arthur St. Ckir.
results of the labors of that other body, in session at the
same time, whi 'h gave to Ameriea a Constitution, and es
tablished the Ur.i'-ia. I shall dweil upon it at some length.
In the history or every country there are supreme events
to which may I* traced the influence that shaped the des
tiny of the \ eo: le for g od or for evi' : in that of the United
Stares, it is customary to refer to the Declaration of Indeper.
'enee and the adoption of the Constitution in eneomia.-:ie
phrase, as exhibiting wisdom and genius of the
highest order. But. whatever may be said of these, may
be applied to the Ordinai.ee of 1757 with equal justice.
Aye. more, the spirit of the Ordinance has conferred bless
ings in addition to those derived from the Constitution upon
the citizens of the States erected under i•s provisions.
** Upon the surpassing excellence of this Ordinance,"' said
Judge Timothy Walker. " no language of panegyric would
be extravagant. The Romans would have imagined some
divine Egeria for its author. It approaches as nearly to ab
solute perfection as anything to be found in the legislation
of mankind ; for, after the experience of fifty years, it would
perhaps be impossible to alter without marring it. In short,
it is one of those matchless specimens of sagacious forecast
which even the reckless spirit of innovation would not ven
ture to a>~aih"1 As long as human government shall en
dure, the influence for good of this remarkable charter shall
be wimessed. It was the one really great act of legislation
by Cuigress under the old confederation, and it was the
happy fortune of Arthur St. Clair to be the President of
the body at that time and have the opportunity to give to
the measure his hearty support.
Lot us take a brief survey of the provisions of the Or
dinance: *
It provides rules for the descent and conveyance of real
and personal property ; for the appointment of the Gover
nor, Secretary, Judges, and other officers of the territorial
governments; for the adoption of laws for the temporary
government; for the erection of counties ; for the election
1 llix'nn^at Di>rovrse, 23d December, 1£37. Trantaciom Ohio Hist, and
Phil. So'y Vol. I., Part ii., p. 189.
Life and Public Services of -Arthur St. Clair. 119
of a General Assembly after the growth in population to
live thousand souls; and for the election of a delegate to
Congress, to have the right of debate, but not of voting
during the territorial condition. It then says: '-For exte.
ding the fundamental principles of civil and religious
liberty, which form the basis whereou these republics, their
laws and constitutions, are erected; to fix and establish
those principles as the basis of all laws, constitutions and
governments, which hereafter shall be formed in the terri
tory; to provide also for the establishment of States and
permanent government therein, and for their admission to
a share i:i the Federal councils on an equal footing with the
original States," etc., "It is hereby ordained and declared,
by the authority aforesaid, that the following articles shall
be coi)8ideied articles of compact between the original
States, and the people and States in the said territory, and
forever remain unalterable unless by common consent."
The first ox these articles secures religious freedom to
the inhabitants; the second prohibits legislative interfer
ence with private contracts, secures the benefit of the writ
of habeas corpus, trial by jury, and of the common law in
judicial proceedings; it forbids the infliction of cruel or
unusual punishments; the third declares that as religion,
morality and knowledge are necessary to good government
and the happiness of mankind, schools and the means of
education shall ever be encouraged, and good faith ob
served towards the Indians; the fourth provides that the
territories shall remain forever a part of the United States,
pay their just proportion of the Federal debts and expenses,
not interfere with the primary disposal of the soil by
the general Government, nor tax non-resident proprietors
higher than resident, and makes the navigable waters free
forever to all citizens of the United States;1 the fifth pro
vides for a division of the territory into States, and their
1 Mr. Orayson, of Virginia, March 16, 17^fi. moved a resolution rela
tive to the. free navigation of the Mississippi, which was incorporated
into the Ordinance of 1787. The authorship is traced to Timothy
Pickering, in a letter to Iiufus King, March 8, 1785. See Spencer'a
HUt. U. &, Vol. II., p. 207.
Idl) L.p Mi.-.W >--;-• f ±-•l,l.- St. Clair.
aiLni.-^-ion inm die Uiioa widi republican governments,
w:.en rhey shall hu^e sixty thousand inhabitants, on an
e«\ iai f oc:igw:-ii lie or-g-ooi Stares: and the sixth declares,
— 'here sua.. >e neither -iavery our involuntary servitude
within rti* rei—:*- ry. orherwise than in the punishment of
craies. whereof' ::ie ?ar•"y sua.! have been July convicted:
Provided always* :..ur any rer~ n escaping into the same,
from whom 'u^it or -service is- lawr-i ly claimed in any one
- - - . - - - ----"'- "n« fully ree
la: mod in I conveyed t.- the person claiming his or her
ia.I or or serv^.-es as a? resold/"
S-ich are the benerieen: provisions of this remarkable
purer. under wLI.-h Srafes have grown to be great and
their tnhabirarrs r-ore r "outcro-is and happy than the
world has ever tv:ire seen—p-o visions -unalterable and
indestruetib'e exec t Ly that fi?a and eooju;on rnin which
has overtaken a I former systenus ot human polity."1
Ttiose relating t ? contracts* t i the treatment of Indians, and
to s'avery. are orhiiuah while the others are drafted chiefly
from the Virginia Bll of R;: ts» and the constitutions
:i»rmed t »r Pennsylvania. Mary ar J. and Georgia in 1776-7.
B::t the whole are grace:''; !y wo.-ded. and admirably adapted
for the purposes of free govern menr. It was fortunate
that the system was to be established first in a new coun
try, where there were no obstructive customs and privileges
to be retm-ved bef -re irs benefits e•uld be tnliy realized.
It is true there were immigrants who bro -ght with tl em
opinions in conflict with the principles of the Ordinance,
and inconsiderately sought their modification, in vain.3
' n ,, ', rre! r \ .r .Si-.'V*. p IT.
2This refers to immigrants from Southern States who located in
fv.'iih. rn Ii.diana and Illinois. The French residents at St. Vincents,
an'l iit Ka-kd-kia and t'ahokia. had been permitted to hold slaves by
t..e K iug of France, and this permission was continueil under the Gov
ernment of Great Britain. Hence, when the Ordinance was passed, in
1 1 «". slavery existed at the places named, and it was not interfered
n iili under the territorial governments. Some slaves were removed to
llii- l.oni-iari.'i Territory, but others were retained as indentured serv
ants. Immigrants favorable to slavery, and the old inhabitants, united
in memorials to Congress, asking a suspension of the Sixth Article.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 121
Thore were others, however, with broader views of human
ity ami the ends of government, who, attracted by ihe
principles of civil and religious liberty incorporated in the
fundamental law, came by thousands, grateful for the op
portunity to be bound by its covenants.1
The first of these, signed by John Edgar and others, was reported on
May 12. 1706, hy Joshua Coit, of Connecticut, to whom it hud been
referred, adversely. In December, 1802, a meeting of citizens of the
Indiana Territory, held at Vincennes, and presided over by William
Henry Harrison, resolved to make an effort to secure a suspension of
the Sixth Article of the Ordinance. A memorial was drawn up, and in
February following, it and a letter from Mr. Harrison were referred to
a special committee, of which John Randolph, of Virginia, was Chair
man. March 2, 1802, Mr. Randolph reported the following resolution:
" Rtsoloeil, That it is inexpedient to suspend, for a limited time, the
operation of the .Sixth Article of Compact between the original States
and the people and States west of the river Ohio."
This resolution was accompanied by these wise remarks: "The
rapid population of the State of Ohio sufficiently evince, in the opin
ion of your committ e, that the labor of slaves is not necessary to pro
mote the growth and settlement of colonies in that region; that this
labor, demonstrably the dearest of any, can only be employed to
advantage in the cultivation of products more valuable than any
known to that quarter of the United States ; that the committee deem
it highly dangerous and inexpedient to impair a provision wisely cal
culated to promote the happiness and prosperity of the north-western
country, and to give strength and security to that extensive frontier.
In the salutary operation of this sagacious and benevolent restraint,
it is believed that the inhabitants of Indiana will, at no distant day,
find ample remuneration for a temporary privation of labor and of
emigration."
In March, 1804, Caesar Rodney, of Delaware—afterward AttorneyGeneral
of the United States—reported the resolution of a Special
Committee in favor of the suspension of the inhibition for ten years.
A similar report was made in 1806. by James Garnet, of Virginia; and
in 1*07, Mr. Parke, delegate from Indiana, reported favorably on a
memorial of William Henry Harrison and the Territorial Legislature,
praying for a su<pension of the Sixth Article of the Ordinance. But
no action was ever taken by the House on these favorable reports.
Subsequently, General Harrison and his Legislature went before the
Senate, and a Special Committee, consisting of Mr. Franklin, of North
Carolina, Mr. Kitchell, of New Jersey, and Mr. Tiffin, of Ohio, was
appointed. They brought in an adverse report, and that put an end
to the efforts to destroy the anti-slavery clause of the Ordinance.
1 "On the whole, these articles contain what they profess to contain,
122 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
!N"ot less interesting than the Ordinance itself is the ques
tion of authorship. Who possessed the s'atemauehip to
draft it, and the political tact to secure its unanimous
adoption? Claims have been put forth for different emi
nent citizens. Thomas II. Benton, Governor Edward
Coles, and others, attributed the authorship to Jefferson ;
Mr. Webster, and a long list of writers, to Nathan Dane,
of Massachusetts, while a son of Ruins King claimed him
to be the originator of the anti-slavery article. Xew in
terest has been given to this discussion by recent contribu
tions to the Historical Magazine1 and North American Beview,1
ascribing the authorship of the most important arti
cles, and the influence that secured its passage, to Dr.
Manasseh Cutler, of Massachusetts. This claim, which is
based on a single paragraph in the Diary of Dr. Cutler,
ami the circumstances attending the making of a contract
for the sale of western lauds to the Ohio Company, was
first brought to public notice by Hon. William P. Cutler,
a grandson of Dr. Cutler, in 1866.2 Dr. Cutler, as agent
of the Ohio Company, in July, 1787, attended Congress for
the purpose of purchasing a million and a half acres of
land in the Territory north-west of the river Ohio, provided
favorable conditions could be secured. This proposition of
the Ohio Company revived the scheme for the erection of a
government in that Territory, which had been repeatedly
under discussion in Congress, beginning in 1784, when Mr.
Jefferson brought forward a comprehensive measure for the
division into States of the entire Western Territory.
the true theory of American liberty. The great principles promul
gated are wholly ami purely American. They are, indeed, the genuine
principles of freedom, unadulterated by that compromise' with cir
cumstances, the effects of which are visible in the Constitution and
h story of the Union."—Chate's Preliminary Sketch, p. 1><.
Mr. Chise refers to the slavery compromise, of course. He over
looked the fact that the Sixth Article is, after all, a compromise on
the subject of slavery similar to one in the Constitution.
1 By President Tuttle, of Wabash College, in 1873.
" By William Frederick Poole, in 1S76.
2On occasion of a Pioneer Celebration at Marietta. IIe claimed for
Dr Cutler an equal participation with Mr. Dane in the formation of
the Ordinance.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 123
Maryland, and Mr. Howell, of Rhode Island, had reported
an ordinance for the temporary government of the Terri
tory North and South of the river Ohio, out of which ten
States were to he formed. Its notable features were articles
of " compact" between the original States and the Terri
tories, and the following : " That, after the year 1800 of the
Christian era, there shall be neither slavery nor involun
tary servitude in any of the said States, otherwise than in
the punishment of crimes, whereof the party shall have been
duly convicted to have been personally guilty." Subse
quently, on motion of Mr. Spaight, of North Carolina, this
clause was stricken out, only six States voting for it,1 and,
on the 23d April, 1784, the ordinance was passed as
amended. It was a dead letter.2 Mr. Jefferson, having
been appointed Minister to France, retired from Congress.
One year later, Timothy Pickering, of Massachusetts, be
sought Hufus King to make another effort to secure an or
dinance prohibiting slavery in the Territories. Accord
ingly, on the l61h March, 1785, Mr. King moved that the
following resolution be committed:
"Jtesolced, That there shall he neither slavery nor invol
untary servitude in any of the States described in the re
solve of Congress of the 23d April, 1784, otherwise than in
the punishment of crimes whereof the party shall have been
personally guilty; and that this regulation shall he an arti
cle of compact, and remain a fundamental principle of the
Constitution between the thirteen original States and each
of the States described in the said resolve of the 23d of
April, 1784."
The resolution went to the Committee of the Whole, but
was never afterwards called up.3
In 1786, other committees were appointed for the purpose
of reporting an ordinance for the Western Territory.' The
1 The votes of seven States were required to pass any measure.
2The lands bud not been surveyed nor Indian titles quieted.
* Force's History of the Ordinance, Vol. II., Appendix I : Eight States
voted to commit, and tbree (Virginia, Xorth Carolina, and South
Carolina) voted in the negative.
* This year, a memorial was received from the inhabitants of Knskas-
124 Life and Public Sereices of Arthur St. Clair.
last consisted of Mr. Johnson, of Connecticut; Mr. Pinckney,
of South Carolina; Mr. Smith, of New York; Mr.
Dane, of Massachusetts, and Mr. Henry, of Maryland.
They finally reported an ordinance April 26, 1787. The
third reading was reached on the 10th May, but no vote
was taken, and final action was postponed. The original
draft of this ordinance was found and communicated by
Mr. Peter Force to the National Intelligencer, August 26,
1847, and it contains little in common with the instrument
that was finally passed on the 18th of July.1 There was
nothing of the gr;;nd principles of freedom, of non-inter
ference in contrads, of protection of private property, of
the importance of education, religion, and morality to so
ciety, which are the distinguishing features of the Ordinance
we are considering. It did not contain the articles of com
pact, which were to remain unaltered forever, unless by
common consent.2
This was the situation of affairs when Dr. Cutler arrived
at New York, on the 5th of July, to make that bargain
with Congress for land on the Ohio. He was a man of
affairs, in the prime of life, and highly educated. He had
been a Chaplain in the Revolutionary army, and, in com
mon with other officers who had been paid off in Govern
ment certificates, was in such circumstances as to be con
strained to exchange these evidences of indebtedness for
something immediately marketable. The Ohio Company
had been formed for that purpose. Dr. Cutler was a gradkia,
praying for the organization of a territorial government. On the
ri4lh of August, the Secretary of Congress was directed to inform the
memorialists that " Congress have under consideration apian of tempo
rary government of that district, and that its adoption would be no
longer protracted than the importance of the subject and a due re
gard to their interests might require." —Joarnafs of Congress.
1Mr. Poole says: "It had no resemblance to the Ordinance which
passed on the 13th July." This language implies that there was noth
ing in common. But the provisions for temporary government; the
appointment of officers; the formation of a legislature ; the adoption
of laws; the qualifications of electors, and the' benefits of the act of
halit-as corpus, and of trial by jury, are very similar.
1Force. See Appendix I., Vol. II., St. Clair Papers.
Life and Public Services of Arthur Si. Clair. 125
ua'e of Yale College, was distinguished as a scientist and
author, and had been honored with the degrees of A. M.,
by Harvard, and LL. D., by Yale. He served four years
as a member of Congress, and is described as a " person of
stately and elegant form and courtly manners, and, at the
same time, easy, affable, and communicative. He was much
given to relating anecdotes, and making himself agreeable."
He was armed with letters c-f introduction, especially to
Southern members, and soon was on intimate terms with
the Virginia members—Richard Henry Lee, Colonel Car
rington, and Mr. Grayson.
Four days after his arrival, a new committee, consisting
of Mr. Carrington and Mr. Lee, of Virginia: Mr. Dane, of
Massachusetts; Mr. Kean, of South Carolina, and Mr.
Smith, of New York, was appointed to consider an ordi
nance for the Western Territory. That was on the 9th of
July. A new ordinance, the Ordinance of 1787, was drafted,
introduced, read, amended, and passed, all within four
days. The vote by States was unanimous, but one mem
ber, Mr. Yates, of New York, voted in the negative, be
cause it was constitutional with him to oppose every thing
of a practical character.
Very properly the question is asked: What was the in
fluence that produced the radical change in Congress, and
secured the approval of such liberal principles? Undoubt
edly, Dr. Cutler organized the victory. The treasury was
exhausted, and Congress was in a humor to consider plaus
for bringing the Government lands into market. Princi
ples had been discussed, and it was possible to reconcile
conflicting views. The time was ripe for action, and Dr.
Cutler understood the situation. His first move after mak
ing the acquaintance of members, would be to secure a
committee favorable to his plans.1 He could do this only
through- the President. Accordingly, he went to General
1Colonel Carrington, a personal friend of St. Clair's, wlio had been
associated with him during the Revolutionary War, as a member of a
Committee to negotiate a Cartel; and, secondly, in the movement of
troops through Virginia to reinforce Greene, was made Chairman of
the Committee.
•
126 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
St. Clair, where it is reported he had a cool reception. And
here I must take issue with Mr. Poole as to the reason for
this, as that given by him is not consistent with the char
acter of St. Clair. He says: " He found that General St.
Clair wanted to be Governor of the North-western Terri
tory; and Dr. Cutler, representing the interests of the Ohio
Company, intended that General Parsons of Connecticut
should have the office. But he must have General St.
Clair's influence, and found it necessary to pay the price.
From the moment he communicated this decision, General
St. Clair was warmly enarasred in his interests."
This is suspicion merely. The universal testimony of
all who knew St. Clair disproves the justice of it. He was
frank and manly, and free from any of the cunning or
worldliness the statement of Dr. Cutler would imply. It is
much more likely that Dr. Cutler approached him first to
enlist him in his land scheme, and was balked by the cau
tion and circumspection of the Scotchman; but when he
spoke of the blessings of a free government over such a
vast extent of territory, he engaged his sympathetic aid.
The committee was made to win, and the influence of the
President of Congress in shaping legislation, we know
from experience and observation, must have been great,
and was essential to secure success.
There is a misapprehension of facts here, which has
given rise to perplexing and altogether unnecessary confu
sion, which a more careful inquiry may correct. The anxi
ety of Dr. Cutler will be found to have a more particular
reference to another ordinance which, in a sense, was a se
quel to, and dependent wholly upon, the Ordinance formed
for the government of the North-western Territory. The
two are essentially parts of the same history. They have,
in their origin such close relationship, that they must be
considered as inseparable. Without the application of the
Ohio Company in that summer of 1787, supported by a
declaration of the principles of government deemed essen
tial to attract purchasers of the lands, it is doubtful if a
form of government so highly favorable in all respects
could have been secured in that or any succeeding Congress.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Char. 127
The necessities of the Colonies, the enterprise of the men
of the East, and the political convictions of leading char
acters, all combined to form and give effect to the Ordin
ance. A year or two later the conditions changed. Party
differences became more sharply defined-, and sectional jeal
ousies proved more obstructive than ever.
Who should be the head of the new government, did not
enter into consideration at any stage of the legislation.
Before the passage of the Ordinance, the name of President
St. Clair had not been mentioned in connection with the
office of Governor. On the 13th of July he did not preside.
He had gone the day before to New Jersey to visit a friend,
and he did not return until two days after the passage of
the Ordinance. Only eight States out of thirteen voted for
that instrument: Pennsylvania was one of the five not
represented. When St. Clair returned to New York, he
was accompanied by General Irvine, one of his colleagues.
In a letter1 of the hitter, written 19th July, and addressed
to Colonel Richard Butler, he refers to the Ordinance which
had passed two days before his return, and adds : " Who the
officers of that government will be I hare not heard, nor in
quired." If the name of General St. Clair had been can
vassed, or, if he had had any understanding with the New
England people, as is alleged, it would have been known to
a friend as intimate as General Irvine.
But, furthermore, we have his own testimony, which is
of the best, to sustain us. In a letter to the Hon. William
B. Giles, he says that the office of Governor was, in a great
measure, forced upon him by his friends, who thought
there would be in it means to compensate for his sacrifices
to his country, and provide for his large family. But it
proved otherwise. He had "neither the taste nor genius
for speculation in land; nor did he consider it consistent
with the office." He declared the accepting of the Gov
ernorship the most imprudent act of his life, for he was
then in possession of a lucrative office, and his influence at
home was very considerable. But he had the " laudable
ambition of becoming the father of a country, and laying
1MS. in possession of Isaac Craig. Seep. tSOA
128 J.ife and Public Services of Arthur Si. Clair.
the foundation for the happiness of millions then unborn."1
All this, however, was months after the Ordinance had be
come an accomplished fact, and Dr. Cutler had returned to
his home.
Colonel Carrington was Chairman of the Special Com
mittee that reported the Ordinance for the government of
the North-western Territory, and also of the Committee on
Lands.2 Mr. Dane was a, member of both Committees. A
sharp opposition to the terms proposed by the Ohio Com
pany for the lands, developed after Dr. Cutler's return from
Philadelphia. Borne members thought Congress was asked
to make too important concessions and too large donations
for special purposes, in order to secure the sale of the rest
of the lands. This view is expressed in the letter of Gen
eral Irvine before referred to. While he had no objection
to the mode of sale proposed, as it would sink the National
debt, yet, he added : " I confess to you, I am opposed to
a pre-emption to any company or set of men, I think, on
sound principles; and I hope to prevent this passing with
that tail, however beneficial the body migbt bo without. I
have no idea in making a sale, to bribe a person to get him
to take my commodity with another article of equal or more
value."
Dr. Cutler set about the work of overcoming the objec
tions to his scheme. He brought all available influences
known to politicians to bear on those who 6tood out. Col
onel Duer, Secrctar}7 of the Board of Treasury, devised a
new scheme, which would secure the support of prominent
men, and would bring into market three and a half mil
lions more of land. The original proposition was enlarged,
and Dr. Cutler says he engaged with the Southern mem
bers to bring in the New England members to the support
of General St. Clair* for Governor, if they would make
1 Letter to William B. Giles, Si. Clair's Narrative, p. 1249.
2The Committee on Lands consisted of Mr. Carrington, Mr King,
Mr. Dane, Mr. Madison, and Mr. Benson.
3 The references in Dr. Cutler's Diary to St. Clair, in connection with
legislation for the Ohio Company, are as follows :
" July 13. Paid my respects, this morning, to the President of Con
gress, General St. Clair."
" July 23. . . . Spent the evening with Colonel Grayson and
Life and Public Scrcices of Arthur St. Clair. 129
Major Sargent Secretary, and General Parsons one of the
Judges. But why this to the Southern members when they
were in favor of the contract from the first? This was on
the 23d of July, ten days after the Ordinance had passed,
and members were just beginning to cast about for officers
for the new government. The first measure passed by Con
gress, 23d July, was not satisfactory, and Dr. Cutler sent a
letter to the Board of Treasury explaining wherein it would
have to bo modified. To bring Congress to terms, he
threatened to leave New York and buy lands for his com
pany of some of the States. This had the desired effect,
and, on the 27th, Congress completed the contract by ac
cepting the modifications proposed by the wily Doctor.
"At half-past three, I was informed that an ordinance had
members of Congress from the southward, who were in favor of a con
tract. Having found it impossible to support General Parsons as a
candidate for Governor, after the interest that General St. Clair had
secured, and suspecting this might be some impediment in the way, for
my endeavors to make interest for him wero well known, and the ar
rangement of civil officers being on the carpet, I embraced this oppor
tunity frankly to declare that, for my own part, I ventured to engage
for Major iSargent that, if General Parsons could have the appointment
of First Judge, and Sargent Secretary, we Bhould be satisfied; and that
I heartily wished his Excellency, General St. Clair, might be the Gov
ernor; and that I would solicit the Eastern members to favor such an
arrangement. This I found rather pleasing to the Southern mem
bers, and they were so complaisant as to ask, repeatedly, what office
would be agreeable to me in the Western country. I assured them
that I wished for no appointment in the civil line.
"July 26. This morning I accompanied Cionerals St. Clair and
Knox on a tour of morning visits' and, particularly, to the Foreign
Ministers .. . Being now eleven o'clock, General St. Clair was
obliged to attend Congress. After we came into the street, General
St. Clair assured me, he would make every possible exertion to prevail
with Congress, to accept the terms contained in our letter. He ap
peared much interested and very friendly; but said we must expect
opposition. I was now fully convinced that it was good policy to give
up Parsons, and openly to appear solicitous that St. Clair might be
appointed Governor. Several gentlemen have told me that our mat
ters went on much better since St. Clair and his friends had been in
formed that we had given up Parsons, and that I had solicited the
Eastern members, in favor of his appointment."
130 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
passed Congress, on the terms stated in our letter, without
the least variation ; and that the Board of Treasury was
directed to take, order, and close the contract. . . . By
this ordinance, we obtained the grant of near five millions
of acres of land, amounting to three millions and a half of
dollars. One million and a half of acres for the Ohio Com
pany, and the remainder for a private speculation,1 in which
many of the principal characters in America are concerned.
"Without connecting this speculation, similar terms and ad
vantages could not have been obtained for the Ohio Com
pany."
We have Dr. Cutler and General St. Clair laboring to
gether for the creation of a government for the North-west
ern Territory, and both afterwards related to it, though in
manner widely different—the one sharing in its benefits,
the other in the labors of administration in a vast wilder
ness beset by such difficulties and perils as were calculated
to test the stoutest heart—that could only be met success
fully by the highest qualities of character, and these St.
Clair possessed.
Mr. Poole says there have been traditions and positive
evidence, in the form of autograph letters in the family of
Dr. Cutler, since his death, that he caused the insertion in
the Ordinance of the following clause : " Religion, morality,
and knowledge being necessary to good government and
the happiness of mankind, schools and the means of edu
cation shall forever be encouraged." And he contended
stoutly and successfully for the grant of land for the uni
versities and ministry. These provisions were essential
to the success of the scheme of the Ohio Company. Dr.
Cutler's diary is not explicit on the different points.2 He may
1 The "principal characters in America" failed to complete this part
of the contract.
2 Dr. Cutler says, that the bill for the government of the North
western Territory was submitted to him, " with leave to make remarks
and propose amendments," and that he returned it with his observa
tions in the form of several amendments. This bill was undoubtedly
the one proposed by Mr. Dane, and which was retired May 10th, as we
find this entry in Dr. Cutler's Diary under date, July 19. "Called on
members of Congress very early this morning. Was furnished with
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 131
have suggested the clause on contracts, as that had been in
his "line of thought," but that as to the treatment of the
Indians was more likely to have originated with some one
who had experience in treating with them, and there was
no member who had had bo much experience, or who had
studied the questions so thoroughly as the President of
Congress.
The anti-slavery clause has provoked the widest discus
sion, as it touched what has proved to be the sensitive nerve
of national polities, and determined immediately the char
acter of the communities to be organized in the Territory.
"Who was the author of the Sixth Article? Dr. Cutler is
understood to have said that he drafted it when in New
York;1 but he was in Philadelphia, discussing the flora
of New England, or moral philosophy, with the venerable
Dr. Franklin, when that article was drafted. Mr. Dane
says : " "When I drew the ordinance, which passed, a few
words excepted, as I originally formed it,2 I had no idea
the States would agree to the Sixth Article, prohibiting
slavery, as only Massachusetts of the Eastern States was
present, and therefore omitted it in the draft; but, finding
the House favorably disposed on the subject, after we had
completed the other parts, I moved the article, which was
the Ordinance establishing a Government in the Western Federal Ter
ritory. It is, in a degree, new modeled. The amendments I proposed
have all been made, except one; and that is better qualified. It was
that we should not be subject to Continental taxation, until we were
entitled to a full representation in Congress. This could not be fully
obtained, for it was considered, in Congress, as offering a preminm to
emigrants. They have granted us representation, with the right of
debating, but not of voting, upon our being first subject to taxation."
1 Judge Ephraim Cutler, who had incorporated in the Constitution
of Ohio, the clause inhibiting slavery, stated in a private letter (No
vember 24, 1849) that his father, Dr. Cutler, remarked to him, on being
informed of this, that "he thought it a singular coincidence, as he
himself had prepart d that part of the Ordinance, while he was in New
York, negotiating the purchase of lands for the Ohio Company."—
Poole, in North American Review, as before quoted.
2We have shown that the Ordinance, drafted by Mr. Dane, and aft
erward discovered by Mr. Peter Force, bore slight resemblance to the
Ordinance as passed July 13. Dr. Cutler says it was new modeled.
132 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
agreed to without opposition." It is of record that Mr.
Dane offered an amendment, which became the Sixth Ar
ticle, on the 12th of July, when the bill was up for a sec
ond reading. But did he draft it with the proviso? Was
he, in any proper sense, the author of it? I think not,
nor of any of those original and striking provisions which
mark the Ordinance as "one of the greatest monuments'
of civil jurisprudence." In the first place, we have seen
that the Ordinance which Mr. Dane did draft, and which
was left untouched after the 10th of May, contained no
hint that he had ever even dreamed of such principles of
government. In the second place, the style of the Ordi
nance of July 13th is the surest refutation of Mr. Dane's
claim of authorship. It bears no resemblance to his com
position. Nor does Mr. Dane, in his letter to Mr. King,
which is given at length in Spencer's History of the United
States, show that he had an intelligent conception of the
real nature and importance of the Ordinance ; and no
where does he attempt to explain why the committee that
had his ordinance in charge May 10th was discharged, a
new committee appointed, and a new Ordinance, of widely
different character, drafted and rushed through, all within
four days. We shall have to look further.
The explanation will be found, I think, in the prevalence
of anti-slavery sentiment among the prominent statesmen
of Virginia, at that period. It was not until after 1808,
the date of the suppression of the slave trade, when Vir
ginia assumed a new relation to the cotton States, that this
sentiment became unfashionable in the Old Dominion. In
1784-1787, the echo of the Declaration of Independence
had not yet died away. Jefferson believed slavery to be an
evil, and drafted an article prohibiting it in all territory
after 1800. This future limitation was undoubtedly put in
as an inducement to South Carolina and Georgia to sup
port the Ordinance. The same policy was pursued in 1787,
when the proviso for the rendition of fugitive slaves was
added to the Sixth Article. And this proviso aids us in
determining the influence that secured the adoption of the
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 133
anti-slavery clause. It clearly emanated from Virginia.1
On the committee were Richard Henry Lee and Colonel
Carrington, of that State, the latter of whom was chairman
of the committee. Before them were the resolution offered
by Mr. King in 1786, for which their colleague, Mr. Gray
son, had voted, and the report of Mr. Jefferson in 1784.
They were familiar with, and doubtless shared in, the opin
ion as to slavery prevailing in their own State—that, while
the institution ought to be destroyed, it would be danger
ous and inconvenient to make any sudden change in prop
erty rights. Hence the clause for the recovery of fugitives.
In support of this the reader is referred to the debates in
the Virginia Convention on the adoption of the Federal
Constitution in 1788, and particularly to the remarks of
Mason, Tyler, Madison, Nichols, and Henry, on pages 452
to 458 inclusive, of Elliott's Debates; and also to the re
marks of Mr. Sherman on the rendition clause when under
consideration in the Federal Constitutional Convention,
in 1787.
Not only does the Sixth article contain language similar2
1 In making this statement, I do not forget the influence of Massa
chusetts men in creating a sentiment in favor of the prohibition of
slavery. Timothy Pickering, in 1786 devised a plan for the forma
tion of a new State west of the Ohio river—" the total exclusion of
slavery from {he State to form an essential and irrevocable part of the Constitution.'' l And wo have seen how he moved Rufus King to offer
a resolution proposing a compact inhibiting slavery from the Western
Territory. But, after all, we are compelled to retrace our steps to Mr.
Jefferson's article, proposed in 1784.
1 Compare the Jefferson article with that of the Ordinance as finally
adopted :
Jefferson'8 Article, J7S4. Ordinance of 1787Sizth Article.
" That after the year 1800, ot the Christ-' " There shall be neither slavery nor invol- ian era, there shall be neither slavery nor in- -untaru servitude in the said territory, other- voluntary servitude in any of the said States, wise than in punishment of crimes whereof the party shall have been duly convicted; Provided, always, that any person escap ing into the same from whem labororser- viee is lawfully claimed etc. etc."
And yet, with these two articles before him, Mr. Howard flay, in re
futing the claim of authorship of the anti-slavery article set up for Mr.
Jefferson, says: "Nor was there any essential similarity in the two or
dinances." Then as the language is identical in the essential part of
this most important article, what constitutes authorship?
(1) Howard Gay's " Bryant's Popular History United States," Vol. IV., p. 95.
otherwise than in the. punishment of crimes. whereof the parly shall have been duly con victed to have been personally guilty."
r
134 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
to that employed by Mr. Jefferson in 1784, but the proviso
is the same in effect as the clause in Article IV. of the Con
stitution. Both the proviso and the rendition clause avoid the
use of the word slave. And on the very day the Ordinance
was passed the Federal Convention perfected that clause of
the Constitution relative to representation and direct taxa
tion, which adds "three-fifths of all other persons"—towit:
slaves.
Is this to be attributed to accident? Does it not show
clearly that these important clauses were decided on after
conference between members of the Constitutional Conven
tion and Congress, as related by Mr. Madison to Governor
Coles.1 and should be regarded as compromises? In case of
the Constitution, if the slave trade were to be prohibited
and slaves taxed, escaping slaves should be delivered up to
their owners. In that of the Ordinance, if slavery were
prohibited in the Xorth-western Territory, masters should
be allowed to reclaim their slaves.
There is one other point to consider in support of this
view of the supremacy of Virginia influence, and that is,
that Colonel Carrington, in presenting the amendments,
1"This brings to my recollection what I was told by Mr. Madison
The old Congress held its sessions, in 1787 in New York,
while at the same time the Convention which framed the Constitution
of the United States held its sessions in Philadelphia. Many individ
uals were members of both bodies, and thus were enabled to know
what was passing in each—both sitting with closed doors and in secret
sessions. The distracting question of slavery was agitating and retard
ing the labors of both, and led to conferences and inter-communications
of the members, which resulted in a compromise by which the North
ern or anti-slavery portion of the country agreed to incorporate into
the Ordinance and Constitution the provision to restore fugitive slaves;
and this mutual and concurrent action was the cause of the similarity
of the provision contained in both, and had its influence in creating
the great unanimity by which the Ordinance passed, and also in
making the Constitution more acceptable to the slave-holders." The
History of the Ordinance ofl"bl, p. 28,
It may be urged, on the other hand, that as the Constitution was
formed after the Ordinance, the clause in the Constitution relating to
the rendition of slaves, as well as other provisions, was copied from the
Ordinance. But the testimony of Mr Madison as to the conference
should be accepted as conclusive on that poi-it.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 135
which were adopted on the 12th, inserted a clause in the
second paragraph to confirm the reservation made for the
French and Canadian inhabitants at St. Vincents and Kaskaskia
in the deed of cession of Virginia. This was a mat
ter on which the Virginians laid much stress. Other amend
ments proposed by Mr. Carrington related to the descent of
property and the dependence of good government upon the
diffusion of knowledge. Hence, Mr. Force remarked in his
communication, to which I have referred, that it would ap
pear "that most of the principles ' on which its wisdom and
fame rest,' were presented by Mr. Carrington." This does
not conflict with the theory above considered at length ;
it enforces it, rather. The conferences between Colonel
Carrington and Dr. Cutler were useful in harmonizing the
views of the South and New England. Surely there was
not one, but many authors.1
To complete the work so auspiciously begun, and to
carry out the provisions of this Ordinance, on Friday, the 5th
of October, 1787, Congress proceeded to elect officers for
the new Government. Arthur St. Clair was chosen Gov
ernor; James M. Varnum, Samuel Holden Parsons, and
John Armstrong, Judges; and Wmthrop Sargent, Secre
tary. Mr. Armstrong declining, John Cleves Symmes was
afterwards appointed to the vacancy.
There was, as yet, no Congressional legislation for carry
ing into effect the Ordinance, and General St. Clair im
proved the earliest opportunity after the assembling of the
first Congress under the Federal Constitution, to secure the
necessary action. In July, 1789, Mr. Fitzsimmons, of Penn
sylvania, reported in the House of Representatives a bill,
wbich had been drafted by St. Clair, for the government
of the North-western Territory, which passed the House
and the Senate without opposition. This act gave the sanc
tion of the National legislature to all of the important pro1
For a full statement of Mr. Dane's claim the reader is referred to
Spencer 3 History of the United States Vol. II., pp. 206-7-8. Mr. Gay, on
p. 110, Vol. IV. of his " Bryants History of the United Stales" says that a
printed copy of the Ordinance, with the articles in question in Mr.
Dane's handwriting, was found among the archives of the United
States.
136 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
visions of the Ordinance, including the compact for the in
hibition of slavery, which was a formal assertion of the
right of the National legislature to regulate that institution
in the Territories.
Meanwhile, the Ohio Company had been preparing the
way for a government by making a settlement on lands
at the confluence of the Ohio and Muskingum rivers, pur
chased through the agency of Dr. Manasseh Cutler.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 137
CHAPTER VL
The North-westers Territory—Arrival op Governor St. Clair at Fort
IIarmar—Interesting Ceremonies—Address to the Settlers at Cam
pos Mastics—Auspicious Beginning op the Wore of Establishing
Civil Government—Claim op the Indians to the Territory, and its
Importance to Them—Adopting Laws—Difference wiTn the Judges
—Establishment of the First Court in the North-west—Social
Life on the Museingum—-Louisa St. Clair—Treaty at Fort IIar
mar—Influence of Joseph Brant and his British Allies—Confed
eracy of Indian Nations—Arrival at Fort Washington—Cincinnati
Named, and why—Organization of Counties and Local Governments
in the Illinois and Wabash Countries—Temptation to Return to
Political Life in Pennsylvania—Proposition to Maee St. Clair
Governor of that State.
The opening chapter in the history of the North-west
begins with the recital of the indomitable perseverance and
heroic bravery displayed by the discoverer—John Nficolet.
An investigation of the career of this Frenchman shows
him, at an early age, leaving his home in Normandy for
the New World, landing at Quebec iu 1618, and at once
seeking a residence among the Algonquins of Ottawa river,
sent thither by the Governor of Canada to learn their lan
guage. In the midst of many hardships, and surrounded
by perils, he applied himself with great zeal to his task.
Having become familiar with the Algonquin tongue, he
was admitted into the councils of the savages.1
The return of Nicolet to civilization, after a number of
years immured in the dark forests of Canada, an excellent
interpreter, qualified him to act as Government agent among
the wild "Western tribes in promoting peace, to the end
that all who had been visited by the fur-trader might re1
Nicolet has at last found an American biographer competent to do
him justice, in Mr. C. W. Butterfield, the accomplished author of
"Crawford's Campaign against Sandusky," "The Washington-Crawford
Letters," and other valuable contributions to Western History. Mr.
Buiterfit-ld hns just published, "The History of the Discovery of the
Northwest by John Nicolet, in 1634, with a Sketch of His l.ile "
138 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
main firm allie3 of the French. Nay, further : it resulted
in his being dispatched to nations far beyond the Ottawa,
known only by hearsay, with whom it was believed might
be opened a profitable trade in furs. So he started on his
perilous voyage. He visited the Hurons, upon the Georgian
Bay. With seven of that nation, he struck boldly into
wilds to the northward and westward never before visited
by civilized man. He paddled his birch canoe along the
eastern coast of Lake Huron and up the St. Mary's Strait
to the falls. He floated back to the Straits of Mackinaw,
and courageously turned his face toward the West. At the
Sault Ste. Marie he had—the first of white men—set foot
upon the soil of the North-west.
Nicolet coasted along the northern shore of Lake Michi
gan, ascended Green Bay, and finally entered the mouth
of Fox river. It was not until he and his swarthy Hurons
had urged their frail canoes six days up that stream, that
his western exploration was ended. He had, meanwhile,
on his way hither, visited a number of tribes, some that
had never before been heard of by the French upon the St.
Lawrence. With them all he smoked the pipe of peace :
with the ancestors of the present Chippewas, at the falls ;
with the Menomonees, the Winnebagocs, the Mascoutins,
in what is now the State of Wisconsin ; with the Ottawas,
upon the Manitoulin Islands, and the Xez Perces, upon the
east coast of Lake Huron. Ho made his outward voyage
in the summer and fall of 1634, and returned the next year
to the St. Lawrence. He did not reach the Wisconsin
river, but heard of a "great water" to the westward, which
he mistook for the sea. It was, in fact, that stream, and
the Mississippi, into which it pours its flood.
On the morning of Wednesday, July 9th, 1788, there was
unwonted activity in the garrison at Fort Harmar. The
day was to be a memorable one, and care was taken that
nothing should be omitted that could possibly add to the
inipressiveness of the occasion. The soidiers' muskets had
been freshly burnished, and the officers wore their newest
uniforms. At an early hour the distinguished citizens dwell
ing in and around Campus Martins, having donned their
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 139
best attire, waited on the commandant, to be assigned their
proper places.1 Old soldiers—brothers of the Revolution—
were to meet agaiu, and unite in the establishment of the
principles for which they contended on the martial field,
in a vast new country. The day, like the common expec
tation, was bright and beautiful, and the waters of the
Muskingum and Ohio, as they united and flowed peacefully
towards the western confines of the new land, seemed to
reflect the outlines of the hills and wooded shores more
perfectly than ever before.1
And now the signal gun is heard announcing the ap
proach of the hero. General Harmar, with officers and
citizens, proceed to the landing, where they welcome Gover
nor Arthur St. Clair, as he, accompanied by Major Doughty,
of the artillery, steps from the twelve-oared barge upon the
shore. The military honors are not omitted by his old
companion-in-arms, and fourteen guns are discharged with
1 The settlement had been in existence all of three moons. It was
on the 7th of April, 1788, (occasion ever to be remembered by the good
people of Ohio) that that noble Revolutionary soldier, General Rufus
Putnam, and forty-seven others of the hardy son3 of New England,
disembarked from the " Mayflower," at the mouth of the Muskingum
river. Within these three months, forest trees had been felled, houses
built, a stockade erected, a city designed, lands laid off, seeds planted,
and grounds tilled—an exhibition of determination and intelligent
skill never excelled in the history of the world. Before the expiration
of the three months quite a number of families joined the settlement.
Hence the orator on the 4th of July could, with propriety, address his
fair countrywomen.
1 How tame does this attempt to depict the scene, after a lapse of
nearly a century, appear beside the bright anticipations of one of the
participators in the event of that July day. On the 4th of July, 1788,
the garrison and the citizens of Marietta celebrated Independence,
and Judge Varnum was the orator. He said : " We mutually lament
that the absence of his Excellency will not permit us, upon this joyous
occasion, to make those grateful assurances of sincere attachments,
which bind us to him by the noblest motives that can animate an en
lightened people. May he soon arrive. Thou gently flowing Ohio,
whose surface, .as conscious of thy unequaled majesty, reflecteth no
images but the grandeur of the impending heaven, bear him, oh, bear
him safely to this anxious spot! And thou beautiful, transparent
Muskingum, swell at the moment of his approach, and reflect no ob
jects but of pleasure and delight 1"
140 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
due precision at the Fort, where he is to remain until the
formal opening of the civil government.1
Tuesday, July 15th, is red-letter day in the annals of the
North-western Territory, for it was on that day that civil
government was first established west of the river Ohio.
Governor St. Clair, attended by Judges Parsons and Varnum,
and Secretary Sargent, made his public entry at the
bower, in the City of Marietta, where he was received by
General Rufus Putnam, and all of the citizens, " with the
most sincere and unreserved congratulations."2
" His Excellency was seated, and after a short interval
of profound silence, arose and addressed himself to the
assembly in a concise but dignified speech." ! He expressed
his great pleasure at meeting them upon so important an
occasion, and informed them that he had brought with
him a most excellent constitution for the government of
the Territory, to which he invited their attention. There
upon Secretary Sargent read the Ordinance, and also the
commissions of the officers, after which the Governor
spoke at some length in a very happy manner on the im
portance of good government; of his desire to administer
the trust confided to him in such manner as to merit their
approbation ; of the relations of the Territorial to the Gen
eral Government; of the auspicious opening of the new
country, and of the necessity for the community to culti
vate friendly relations with the savages. " The present
situation of territory," he concluded, "calls for attention
in various places, and will necessarily induce a frequent
absence, both of the judges and myself, from this delight
ful spot; but at all times and places, as it is my indispens
able duty, so it is very much my desire to do every thing
within the compass of my power for the peace, good
order, and perfect establishment of the settlement; and as
1 There will be found included in the correspondence of this work
an affectionate letter from General Harmar to St. Clair, from Fort Harmar,
Nov. 25, 1787, expressing his pleasure at hearing of his appoint
ment as Governor.
2 Contemporary account published at Newport, R. I.
8 Ibid.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 141
I look for not only a cheerful acquiescence in and submis
sion to necessary measures, but a cordial co-operation, so I
flatter myself my well-meant endeavors will bo accepted in
the spirit in which they are rendered, and thus our satis
faction will be mutual and complete." 1
At the conclusion the Governor was very heartily ap
plauded,2 and on the following day he was presented, in the
name of the people, with a highly complimentary answer.
, This was the happy beginning of five large States, which
have controlled to a greater degree than any other section
the destinies of the Republic, and by the virtues of their
citizens, the wisdom of their laws, and their faithful observ
ance of the compact which says "they shall forever remain
a part" of the Union, have vindicated the wisdom of the
old Continental Congress in creating the Ordinance of 1787.
If the skies were bright above the favored spot chosen by
the land company of Massachusetts, there was a cloud in
the West of ominous blackness. Trace a line from South
eastern Ohio diagonally to Lake Superior, and you pass
over what was then a wilderness, wooded hills, in the bowels
of which was untold wealth, plains with prairie grass so
tall as to cover a horse, and a soil unsurpassed by any in
1 St. Clair Papers. Vol. II. p. 53.
1 " During the address of His Excellency, a profound veneration for
the elevated station and exalted benevolence of the speaker; the
magnitude of the subject; the high importance of the occasion; the
immense consequences resulting; the glory, the grandeur of a new
world unfolding; heaven and earth approving, called forth all the
manly emotions of the heart. At the close, peals of applause rent the
surrounding air, while joyful echo reverberated the sound. Every
citizen felt to the extent of humanity, and affection herself impressed
upon the mind, in characters never to be obliterated: long live our
Governor!".—Contemporary Account. Pamphlet.
The same veracious and rhetorical chronicler assures us that every
attention was paid to the Governor. On the following Sunday, Divine
service was held by Rev. Dr. Brecki which was attended by every body.
The text was from Exodus: -' Now, therefore, if you will obey my
voice indeed, and keep my covenant, then ye shall be a peculiar
treasure unto me above all people; for all the earth is mine. And ye
shall be unto me a kingdom of priests, and an holy nation." Governor
St. Clair expressed great satisfaction, especially with the singing. " In
deed it was enchanting 1"
142 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
the world, rich river bottoms and virgin forests, uninhab
ited save by Indians. To the eastward the British still
held the posts along the chain of lakes, and by pernicious
counsel increased the wrath in the breast of the red man.
Draw a similar line from the Upper Ohio to the Mississippi,
and save here and there a devoted Moravian missionary,
there was not a white inhabitant over whom the territorial
aegis could be extended. At Au Post (Vincennes), Kaskaskia,
and Cahokia were French inhabitants and military
posts which had been transferred to the British by the
peace of 1763, and afterwards conquered for Virginia and
the Continental Congress by the intrepid George Rogers
Clarke. At lesser points were a few adventurers, traders
chiefly, but evcr3'-where else, over a vast country, the Indian
was lord of all he surveyed. Here had been the home of
his fathers—he knew of no other; here his children had
acquired that confidence that comes of undisputed posses
sion ; food was found in the forests, on the prairies, in the
waters, or in the cultivated fields of the Scioto, the Mad
River, the Miami, the Auglaize, the Wabash, or the Illi
nois ; there was such abundance as could be found no
where else in the world. Should he yield this without a
struggle to the Long Knife—the intruder—and find his
grave in the waters of the Mississippi?
Won by the devotion and eloquence of the Jesuit Fathers,
the Indians had permitted the French to erect posts on the
lakes, on the rivers and in the interior without objection.
Nay, more, they welcomed the French because they brought
them arms, instructed them in useful arts, and received
their furs in barter. The British pursued pretty much the
same policy, but pushed the traffic for furs with more vigor.
Neither the French nor the British ever put forth a claim
to the soil of the West,1 or sought to do more than to con
duct a profitable trade with the Indians from the posts. In
holding these posts despite the treaty of 1783, the British
hoped for new complications; such change in the favors of
1 The British required the Indians to deed to them the land on which
the forts were erected and adjacent to them ; but put forth no claim
to the lands in general.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 143
fortune as would preserve to them the profitable far trade
of the West. Hence the commanders of the posts con
tinued on friendly terms with the Indians, and encouraged
them in the opinion that white settlements west of the
Ohio threatened the extermination of the red people.
The young men of the Indian tribes conducted a predatory
warfare against the intruders, as they regarded the whites.
All along the borders, the venturesome pioneers were either
killed or driven away, those surviving only remembering
the momentary gleam of the tomahawk or seal ping- knife,
from beneath some leafy covert, as the first or only notice
of the avenging foe. The red-men, while denying the right
of the Six Nations to cede their lands to Congress west of
Pennsylvania, and that they were bound as a whole by the
action of a few chiefs at Fort McIntosh, in 1785, and Fort
Finney, in 1786, yet sought a partial justification for their
bloody deeds in that clause of the several treaties, which
declared that any citizen of the United States who ob
truded on the Indian reservations, should forfeit the
protection of the United States, and be liable to punish
ment by the Indians. There was a partial suspension of
these depredations in the first half of the year 1788, and
the friendly attitude of the Indians who came to Fort
Harmar led the inhabitants on the Muskingum to hope
that they would cease altogether. There was a determina
tion to do nothing that would awaken the animosity of the
savages. We shall see that this hope was doomed to dis
appointment, and that, after the confirmation of the hated
treaties the following year, the chiefs put no restraint upon
their warriors.
By the treaty of Fort McIntosh, the Wyandot, Delaware,
and kindred nations, had acknowledged the sovereignty of
the United States as superceding that of Great Britain,
and had sold lands lying east, south, and west of a line
drawn from the mouth of the river Cuyahoga to the por
tage between that and the Tuscarawas branch of the Mus
kingum, and to the forks of Tuscarawas above Fort Law
rence ; thence to Loramies on the Big Miami; thence to the
Maumee, and thence, with the south-east line of that river,
144 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
to the lake. In the following year a treaty was concluded
with the Shawane8e nation, at Fort Finney, by which
title was obtained to a section extending from the fork of
the Great Miami to the Wabash, on a line with the river
De la Panse.
Laws for the survey and sale of such of these lands as
were not reserved for the Virginia militia and Continental
troops were passed, and intruders warned off'.1 To pro
tect the surveyors and carry out the orders of the Board
of Treasury, was the duty of Colonel Harniar's command
on the Ohio. The land was divided into townships, six
miles square, by lines running north and south, and inter
sected by east and west lines. These townships were again
sub-divided, each section containing a square mile, or six
hundred and forty acres. The ranges were numbered from
south to north, beginning on the Ohio river, and were dis
tinguished by progressive numbers from east to west.
In addition to the general claims of the western Indian
tribes, above referred to, the situation was complicated by
the extraordinary claims of the Illinois and "Wabash Land
Companies, and of the French settlers at Post Vincennes.
The latter, by virtue of Indian grants and court concessions,
claimed a territory of about fifteen thousand square miles;2
while the Land Companies claimed even a greater extent
of territory. The French, on the Mississippi river, had not
yet had their titles confirmed, as provided for in the grant
made by Virginia to the United States. American adven
turers had also taken possession of lands and formed a set
tlement in the vicinity of the confluence of the Kaskaskia
and Mississippi, giving it the name of New Design.5
These various movements and claims excited the jealousy
1 See Land Laws of the United States for the North-western Terri
tory. The missionary towns of Gnadcnhiitten, Sc.hoenbrun, nnd Sa
lem, on the Muskingum, were given to the Moravian Indians surviv
ing the massacre; and three townships, on Lake Erie, were reserved
for the use of refugees from Canada and Nova Scotia.
^Dillon's Hist. Indiana, p. 183.
•Formed in 1782.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 145
of the Indians, which was not allayed by the various
treaties.
Tins was the situation confronting Governor St. Clair,
when, after the impressive opening scenes at Marietta on
the 15th of Jul}-, he set to work with the judges to form a
code of laws for the new government, as provided for iu
the Ordinance. These officers did not strictly confine them
selves within the limits of their legislative authority, which
was to make selections from the statutes of the original
thirteen States. When they could not find laws suited to
the condition of the Territory, they supplied the want by
enactments of their own. This practice was acquiesced iu
by Governor St. Clair with great reluctance,1 and it will be
seen, from his correspondence and speeches included in this
work, that his conservatism and firmness saved the people
from a good deal of unwise legislation. The laws which
were not adapted from the statutes of the States were not
approved by Congress, on the ground that the officers were
not authorized to enact laws. Nevertheless, they (with two
exceptions) continued in force in the Territory, because nec
essary to good government, until the second grade of gov
ernment was established, in 1795, when the Governor and
Council formally enacted a code of laws.2
1 St. Clair Papers. Address to first Territorial Legislature.
* This legislative authority extended from 1788 to 1 79"i, at which time,
the second stage of government having been reached, a General As
sembly was constituted. "That the Governor and Judges, in the en
actment of these laws, exceeded their authority, without the slightest
disposition to abuse it, may be inferred from the fact that, except two
which had previously been repealed, they were all confirmed by the
first Territorial Legislature."—Chase's Prelimmary Sketch, p. 20.
The vacancies caused by the deaths of Judges Varnum (January 10,
1789) and Parsons (1700), were filled by the appointment of George
Turner and Rufus Putnam, respectively. Judge Putnam served until
1796, when ho resigned to accept the office of Surveyor-General. Jo
seph Gillman, of Point Harmar, was appointed to the vacancy. Judge
Turner removed from the Territory, and resigned in 1796. In his
place Return Jonathan Meigs was appointed, in February, 1798. There
were no further changes until Ohio was erected as a State. —Consult
Burnet's Notes, p. 40.
10
146 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
The first law created provided for the organization of the
militia. The draft was prepared by Judges Varnum and
Parsons, and presented to the Governor for his approval.
His criticisms on their work will be found among the St.
Clair papers, and are sufficiently caustic to be acceptable to
a modern reviewer.
The Judges had speculative views, and, unheeding a let
ter from the Governor inviting their attention to important
points of legislation, prepared and presented to him an ex
traordinary "projet" for dividing'real estate held in com
mon.1 The Governor declined to give his assent in a digni
fied and able paper. He showed that great injustice might
result to non-resident property holders through such a law,
and that in that respect it was in violation of the spirit of
the Ordinance. This veto, following so closely after the
criticisms on their essay at military legislation, disturbed
the equanimity of the Judges, and they took advantage of
a letter from the Governor, of the 1st of August, in which
he asked them to give him the precise meaning they affixed
to the word " Laws," as employed in the Ordinance, to de
clare the right and power of a majority of the Judges to
enact laws without the consent of the Governor, and quoted
this sentence from the Ordinance as their authority : " The
governor and judges, or a majority of them, shall adopt,
and publish in the district, such laws of the original States,
criminal or civil, as may be necessary," etc. They claimed
that " a majority of them " applied to the Governor and
Judges sitting as a legislative body.
The Governor replied in a letter that displayed keen an
alytical powers and familiarity with law and the princi
ples of government. " I conceive, gentlemen," said he,
" Congress thought there would be an impropriety in leav
ing the adoption of laws, by which the people of the Dis1
Atwater, in his History of the State of Ohio, falls into an error in say
ing that the Judges presented their scheme on real estate to the Gov
ernor before the passage of the militia law. It was immediately after.
Atwater adds, with perfect justice: "This bill was so loosely drawn up
that had it became a law, the non-resident owners of land, would have
been swindled out of all their lands by the resident proprietors. This
projet was rejected by the Governor."—p. 129.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 147
trict were, for a time, to be governed, solely to the persons
who were to expound them ; much greater, however, would
that impropriety he if the clause of the Ordinance goes
not only to adoption, but to the formation of laws. The
Judges would, in that case, be complete legislators, which
is the very definition of tyranny; and though that arrange
ment might, in your hands, produce no evils, no man can
tell how long this stage of the government will last, or who
may be your successors ; nor could it fail to produce much
uneasiness in the minds of the people over whom so (pos
sibly) oppressive an authority was established.1" He said
that he agreed with the Judges that the " clause in ques
tion, and every other clause in the Ordinance, should receive
a liberal construction wherever they are in the least doubt
ful; and as it, in some measure partakes of the nature of a
charter, is to be expounded favorably to the grantees ; but
it is one thing to construe a grant liberally, and another to
add to the grant by construction that was never in the con
templation of the grantor ; and this is precisely what I
think would follow, should your opinion upon the clause "
prevail.2
The legislative duties kept Governor St. Clair busy until
the close of the year. Beside the militia law already re
ferred to, nine other laws were framed and published, the
most important of which were ; For the establishment of
inferior courts, including probate; for fixing the terms bf
the general court; for the punishment of crimes;3 prescrib
ing oaths of office; regulating marriages; prescribing the
duties of ministerial officers ; for appointing coroners, and
for the limitation of actions. In the law for the punish
ment of crimes, is a section for the prevention of profan
ity, and for a sacred observance of the Christian Sabbath.
The county of Washington, having within its limits about
1 Si. Car Papers. See Vol. II. Correspondence for 17S8.
1 Ibid. St. Clair, having been President of the Congress that passed
the Ordinance spoke for the grantor.
* As there were no jails, minor offenses were punished by fines,
whipping and confinement in the stocks. These emblems of terror
remained in Ohio, until 1812.
148 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
half of the present State of Ohio, was erected on the 26th
of July. Officers for the militia were appointed. The
Governor also appointed three distinguished gentlemen, of
whom we shall hear a good deal, Justices of the Peace, viz.,
Eufus Putnam, Benjamin Tupper, and Winthrop Sargent;
and, on the 30th of August, established a Court of Quarter
Sessions, of which he appointed another distinguished citi
zen and soldier, Return Jonathan Meigs, Clerk. Gen
eral Putnam was also made Judge of Probate, with Col
onel Meigs as Clerk.1
Laws having been framed, civil officers appointed there
under, a county erecteil, and the population having in
creased on the Ohio to one hundred and thirty-two souls,
there remained, to complete the government, only the
formal inauguration of the judiciary : with just laws, bench
and forum, the liberties of the people would be made se
cure. Tuesday, the 2d day of September, 1788, was the
day set apart for this ceremony. The account of an eye
witness enables us to enter into the spirit of the occasion,
and to feel, after an interval of nearly one hundred years,
something like a just appreciation of the greatness of the
work of those Revolutionary heroes. It is the duty, as it
should be the pleasure, of all who enjoy the blessings con
ferred by the most liberal government, and equal and ben
eficent laws, to study the sources of these, and the charac
ter of the men who framed and established them. They
budded for posterity. Then ever green be their memories.
On that memorable first Tuesday of September, the cit
izens, Governor St. Clair and other Territorial Officers, and
military from Fort Harrnar being assembled at the Point,
a procession was formed, and, as became the occasion, with
Colonel Ebenezcr Sproat, Sheriff, with drawn sword and
wand of office at the head, marched up a path that had
been cut through the forest, to the hall in the north-west
block-house of Campus Martins, where the whole counter1
Other officers appointed were as follows: Additional Justices of the
Peace, with power to hold the Court of Quarter Sessions, Archibald
Crary, Isanc Pierce, and Thomas Lord ; Clerk of the Supreme Court,
William Coll is ; Sheriff and Colonel of Militia, Ebenezer Sproat.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 149
marched, and the Judges, Putnam and Tupper, took their
seats on the high bench. Prayer was fittingly ofi'erred by
our friend, the Reverend Manasseh Cutler, who was on a
visit to the new colony, after which the commissions of the
Judges, Clerk, and Sheriff were read, and the opening pro
claimed in deep tones by Colonel Sproat, in these words:
" 0, yes! a court is opened for the administration of evenhanded
justice, to the poor and the rich, to the guilty and
the innocent, without respect of persons; none to be pun
ished without trial by their peers, and then in pursuance
of the laws and evidence in the case."1 Paul Fearing, Esq.
(of whom more hereafter), was admitted as an attorney, and
was the first lawyer in the territory. This was the opening
of the Court of Common Pleas.2 The Indian Chiefs, who
had been invited by Governor St. Clair to attend a con
vention, were curious witnesses of this impressive scene.
The letters of General Rufus Putnam, printed in the Mas
sachusetts Spy, this year, give us a very good picture of pass1
From a manuscript that some years afterward found its way to the
columns of the Marietta Intelligencer. See the American Pioneer, Vol.
I., p. 165.
* On the Tuesday following, September 9th, the first Court of Quar
ter Sessions was opened in the south-east block-house, occupied by
Colonel E. Battelle. Colonel Meigs, Clerk, read the general commis
sion issued by the Governor, after which Colonel Sproat's deep bass
voice commanded the solemn attention of all. General Rufus Put
nam and General Benjamin Tupper were the Justices of the quorum,
ind Isaac Pierce, Thomas Lord, and Colonel Return Jonathan Meigs,
Assistant Justices; Colonel Meigs was also Clerk. Paul Fearing was
admitted an Attorney, and appointed Court-Counsellor for the United
States in the county of Washington. The Grand Jury was constituted
as follows: William Stacy, Foreman ; Nathaniel Cushing, Nathaniel
Goodale, Charles Knowles, Anselm Tupper, Jonathan Stone, Oliver
Rice, Ezra Lunt, John Matthews, George Ingersol, Jonathan Devol,
Samuel Stebbins, Jethro Putnam, and Jabez True. "The charge was
given with much dignity and propriety by Judge Putnam. At 1
o'clock the Grand Jury retired, and the Court adjourned for thirty
minutes. At half-past 1 the Court again opened, when the jurors
entered and presented a written address to the Court, which, after
being read, was ordered to be filed. Judge Putnam replied to the
address. There being no suits before Court, it was adjourned without
<l&y."—HilUreth, p. l!;J3.
150 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
ing events on the Muskingum. The affairs of the Ohio Com
pany had not progressed far enough to admit of the sale
of tracts of land to settlers, and the General and his asso
ciates saws with deep chagrin, the emigrants floating down
the Ohio to the settlements of Kentucky. " Upwards of
seven thousand," he wrote, " have gone down since we
began our settlement," and he was confident many of them
would have staid on the Muskingum if they could have
got lands. Accordingly, notice was issued in August of a
meeting of the Company, and when held, in the December
following, measures were taken to give to settlers lots for
improvement, and for the survey of the lands which fell to
the share of members. Meanwhile, a number of comfort
able log houses with shingle roofs, had been erected in the
town, and the stockade and block-houses of Campus Martius
completed. The south-west block-house was appro priated for the use of Governor St. Clair and family l who
had also presented to him, by the Ohio Company, fifteen
acres of ground in the town.
In the midst of all this toil there was not wanting pleas
ant social intercourse and diversions to relieve the pioneer
life of much of its roughness. From the journal of Colonel
John May, and other contemporary writings, we get a
pleasing view of this life in the wilderness. The great
abundance and variety of game and fish, and the rapid
growth of vegetables and fruits in the rich soil, was the
cause of much wonderment, as well as of much satisfaction.
After the completion of the north-west block-house, the
Directors of the Ohio Company gave a dinner (August 20)
to Governor St. Clair and the officers of Fort Harmar.
The twelve oared barge, that had done such signal duty
before, brought the company, which included a number of
ladies, from the Fort up the Muskingum to the landing
opposite the new garrison. At this dinner were produced
some peaches grown from pits planted by Major Doughty
when he erected Fort Harmar in 1785, very tine and lus
cious. On the Sunday following (August 24) all of the
inhabitants had the privilege of listening to a sermon
1 Mrs. St. Clair and children were still in Pennsylvania.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 151
preached by the accomplished divine, Manasseh Cutler.
And three days later there is another memorable social
event, which we glean from the journal of a friend whom
we met in the South in the closing days of the Revolu
tion—afterwards more intimately associated with St. Clair—
Lieutenant Ebeuezer Denny. Under the date of August
27, we read :
"Judge Symmes, with several boats and families, arrived,
on their way to his new purchase at the Miami. Has a
daughter (Polly) along. They lodge with the General and
Mrs. Harmnr. Stay three days and depart. If not greatly
mistaken, Miss Symmes will make a fine woman. An
amiable disposition and highly cultivated mind about to be
buried in the wilderness/'
A gleam of sunshine in the forest.
The correspondence of Governor St. Clair, during these
days, is chiefly devoted to business affairs, and to these we
shall now turn our attention.
The instructions of Congress to the Governor rela
tive to the Indians, required him to hold a general treaty
with the tribes inhabiting the country north-west of the
river Ohio, and about the lakes, at such times and places
as he should appoint, for the purpose of ascertaining the
causes of uneasiness among them, hearing their complaints,
regulating trade, and amicably settling all affairs concern
ing lands and boundaries between them and the United
States. This business detained him during the winter for
some time at Pittsburg, where he concerted measures with
General Richard Butler, for bringing in the chiefs of the
Six Nations, aud of the western tribes, to the proposed
Convention.1 After a correspondence with the Indians, it
was agreed, in deference to their wishes, to have the con
ference held in what they were pleased to call their own
country, beyond the guns of any fort, to meet at the falls
of the Muskingum,2 and, accordingly, in the latter part of
1 St. Clair Papers.
2Situated about seventy miles from the mouth, and afterwards,
on account of the killing of a colored servant of Major Duncan,
in July, by the Indians, known as " Duncan's Falls." The site selected
152 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
June, General Harmur was instructed to send a detach
ment to that place to prepare a council-house and buildings
for storing the goods to be distributed among the Indians.
The instructions were carried out, and such Indians as
arrived were sent thither. Unfortunately, some renegade
Chippewa and Tawa Indians were among them, and on the
night of the 12th July attacked the sentries and attempted
to steal the goods they were guarding. Two soldiers were
killed and two wounded, but other soldiers coming to their
assistance, the attempt was frustrated. One Indian was
killed and one wounded. The friendly Delawares, who
arrived soon after, declared the dead Indian to be a Tawa,
and the}- aided in the capture of a half-dozen of the ras
cals, who were taken to Fort Harmar in irons.1 It was
afterward ascertained that the Chippewasand Ottawas were
opposed to a treaty and in favor of a war, unless the
whites would agree to the Ohio as a boundary line. We
shall see whose influence it was that brought them to this
determination. Immediately after learning of the unto
ward affair, General St. Clair ordered the provisions back
to Fort Harmar and sent messengers with a request that
they would forward an accompanying speech to the Nations
assembled at the Tawa, or the Detroit River. He also
changed the place for the conference to the Fort. This
change did not, as some writers have held, have any influ
ence on the result.2
for the Council was that upon which the town of Taylorsville was
afterwards built.
1 St. Clair Correspondence. Through the carelessness of the guard,
two of these prisoners escaped, and one of them wns afterwards, at
the earnest solicitation of Captain Pipe, set free, for the purpose of
accompanying that Chief to the Conference of Indian Nations, on the
Detroit river. Captain Pipe said he desired to have the truth set
before the Indians.
* St. Clair Correspondence. Hildreth mentions that a son of Joseph
Brant, with two hundred warriors, was at the Falls in November, and
sent a request to Governor St. Clair that the treaty might be held at
that place. Upon this being refused, "it is supposed, persuaded the
Shawanese not to visit Fort Harmar." St. Clair's letters mention that
Joseph Brant himself was on his way to the Muskingum, and, on
Life ami Public Services of Arthur Si. Clair. 153
The great Mohawk chief, Captain Joseph Brant, or
Thay-andanegea, after the peace with Great Britain had
moved with the Mohawks into Canada, but that Nation
had not withdrawn from the confederacy of the Six Na
tions, nor had Brant resigned his headship of the whole.
He was ambitious, and had grand schemes in view. He
espoused the cause of the western tribes in their contro
versy with the United States upon the question of bound
ary, and, as early as 1785, attempted to form a confederacy
of all the North-western nations and tribes.1 If five of' the
Six Nations had told themselves to the devil—otherwise
the Yankees—as he declared, he did not intend the fierce
Miamis, Shawanese and Kickapoos should do so. In this
benevolent purpose he was encouraged by representatives
of the British Government at the western posts. In
March, 1787, Sir John Johnson wrote to Brant, congratu
lating him on the success of the meetings he had been
holding in the Indian country near Detroit, which he
hoped would have the effect he wished in preventing the
Americans from encroaching on the lands west of the river
Ohio. " Do not suffer an idea to hold place in your mind,"
wrote Sir John, " that it will be for your interests to sit still
and see the Americans attempt the posts. It is for your
sakes, chiefly, if not entirely, that we hold them. If you
become indifferent about them, they may, perhaps, be given
up; what security would youthen have? You would be
left at the mercy of a people whose blood calls aloud for
revenge; whereas, by supporting them, you encourage us
to hold them, and encourage the new settlements, already
considerable, and every day increasing by numbers coming
in, who find they can't live in the States."2
Of the same purport was a letter from Lord Dorchester,
receiving St. Clair's message, turned back, and, meeting with the
Shawanese, induced them to remain away from the conference. It is
not clear whether it was the father or the son en route to the Mus
kingum. The adverse influence was traceable to Joseph Brant, the
head chief.
1 See Stone's The Life of Joseph Brant, Vol. II., p. 264.
* Life of Brant, Vol. II., p. 268.
154 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
through Major Matthews, who expressed a wish to see Col
onel Brant to confer with him for the mutual advantage of
that cause which had always been common. He said that,
while his Lordship could not begin a war with the Ameri
cans, " they must see that it was his Lordship's intention to
defend the posts; and, while these were preserved, the In
dians must find greater security therefrom, and the Ameri
cans greater difficulty in taking possession of their lands."1
Brant's activity in the direction indicated, continued
throughout 1788, although his correspondence with Gov
ernor St. Clair through General Butler, and with General
Knox, gave the government ground to hope that that import
ant chief might be brought to support a peace. The tone
of his letters of this period was different from that of his
correspondence of former years. Mr. Stone expresses the
opinion that this change was due to the anticipated suc
cess " which was to crown the Indian diplomacy of Gen
eral St. Clair."2 But it may have been due to craft, or to
a wish to pave the way for a change if the United States
paid high enough for his services.
I am inclined to attribute it to the former motive. His
correspondence with representatives of the United States
was tardy, and every means was resorted to to effect delay
until he could have time to form his dreamed-of conspiracy
in the North-west, at the head of which he hoped to be
placed. The reply to St. Clair's invitation of the 23d De
cember, 1787, to the Five Nations to join in a conference,
was not sent to General Butler until July of the following
year. The excuse that Brant offered was, that the "land
jobbers," of New York and Massachusetts had beeu in
western New York to purchase some land, and that it had
been a tedious business. He added: "We are preparing
to meet your council, and shall be able to write you from
the Miamis river what time you may expect to see us;
meantime, we hope you to exercise patience, and not
think the time long, as it is a business of importance, which
we mean to consider seriously, and hope to settle to mutual
1 Life of Brant, Vol. II., p. 273.
1Ibiil, p. 279.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 155
satisfaction. I am happy at the idea of meeting you per
sonally, to bring about this long-wished-for business." 1
Meanwhile, General Butler informed General St. Clair
that Colonel Brant was preparing for a conference of the
western Indians at Detroit; and that early in July eighty
chiefs were already there awaiting the arrival of Brant,
whose influence had turned them from the Muskingum to
the former place. It is not known what was done at the
council on the Detroit river, but, doubtless, there was a
division of sentiment, and a failure in forming a confed
eracy under Brant. This chief represents himself, in his
correspondence, as acting with the Hurons, Delawares,
Chippewas, Ottowas, and Pottawatamies, in favor of form
ing a treaty with the Americans, and having a boundaryline
fixed, rather than a war, even at the sacrifice of a small
part of their country. " On the other hand," he said, " the
Shawanese, Miamis, and Kickapoos, who are now so much
addicted to horse-stealing that it will be a difficult task to
break them of it, as that kind of business is their best har
vest, will, of course, declare for war and not giving up any
of their country, which, I am afraid, will be the means of
our separating." 2
It is apparent that if a war-confederacy could not be
formed between the western tribes and the Six Nations, a
general treaty with the Americans wias to be prevented, if
possible. The only glimpse we get of this council is fur
nished by the correspondence of Governor St. Clair. He
received his information through friendly Indians, who
were present, or who served him as messengers. In one of
his letters, he mentions a circumstance that took place be
tween the Wyandots and the warlike chiefs of the Twiirtwees
(Miamis), Shawanese, and Kickapoos. A chief of
the former placed one end of white wampum on the shoulder
of a principal Miami chief, recommending that they be at
peace with the Americans, as were the Six Nations. "YVithout
making any reply, the chief turned aside and let the
emblem of peace fall to the ground. Thereupon, the Wy1
St. Clair Papers.
1 Letter to F. Langan, October 7, 1788.
156 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clatr.
andots immediately left the council. "Were the representa
tives of the British nation interested in this? They thought
the States could not be consolidated into a Republic, and
were encouraged by Shay's Rebellion in Massachusetts, and
the Spanish intrigue in Kentucky. John Connolly, erst
while of Fort Pitt and His Majesty's service, had been sent
to Kentucky, by somebody, and was in this very year hold
ing out inducements to the inhabitants of that country to
receive the protection of good King George. As late as
December ho sent a messenger to the Indians, armed with
a passport, addressed to Captain McKee, in which he asked
him to recommend the messenger to the "natives in gen
eral, that no evil consequences may ensue from the inter
ruption of a good design."
This was the situation in 1788, for which Thayendanegea
and the British officers were chiefly responsible.
On the 9th of September, the important chiefs began to
arrive, but it was not until the middle of December that
a sufficient number had appeared to justify General St.
Clair in attempting a treaty. The council was opened on
on the 15th of December, and on the 29th the cause for the
Indians was stated with great force by the old Wyandot
chief, Shandotto, to which Governor St. Cluir formally re
plied on the 6th of January. To the demand for the Ohio
river as the boundary-line he refused to listen, and ex
plained to the assembled Indians, by a simile, how they
had forfeited their country, in becoming allies of the British
in the Revolutionary War.2 The business was concluded,
and two separate treaties formed on the 9th January; the
first with the Six Nations (excepting the Mohawks), confirm
ing the treaty at Fort Stanwix, and the other with the
representatives of the Wyandot, Delaware, Chippewa, Ot
tawa, Pottawatomie, and Sae Nations, confirming and bet
tering the treaties of Forts McIntosh and Finney.
For particulars, I refer the reader to St. Clair's letters.
He had accomplished an important work and shown great
address. He secured valuable concessions from the Indiana
1 St. Clair Papers. See letter of Major Dunn to St. Clair.
2 Military Juurnul of Major Ebenczer Denny, pp. 332 and 333.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 157
and rewarded them liberally, in which, says the author of
the Life of Brant, "there was an approximation to justice
toward the Indians which hud not been previously coun
tenanced by Congress." 1 He did not recognize the Indians
as one nation, but as different nations having distinct in
terests, in which he followed their own practice. "A
jealousy subsisted between them," says he, "which I was
not willing to lessen by appearing to consider them as one
people,"8 and he was of the opinion that their confederacy
was broken. This the author of the Life of Brant calls
the Maehiavelian policy of dividing to conquer, and then
proceeds to denounce it as immoral. If St. Clair had
created the divisions which the Indians themselves recog
nized, there would have been some ground for censure;
but his action bore a just relation to existing circum
stances. Mr. Stone's premises are not sound.
Neither the fiercest of the western tribes nor the Mo
hawks3 were represented at the conference. The absence
of the latter did not matter much, while the friendship of
1 Life of Brant, Vol. 11., p. 280.
1 St. Clair Papers. Letter to the President.
* Mr. Stone expresses the opinion that Captain Brant was present,
although not a party to the treaty. He bases this opinion on an am
biguous passage in a letter from Captain Brant to Major Matthews, in
March, 1789: "You'll hoar by this opportunity the result of our jaunt
to the southward, as Captain McKee has sent down all the proceed
ings of our councils with the American Commissioners, speeches and
answers. Our proceedings have been such as 1 hope will be approved
of." But Brant does not refer in this to the Mohawks, but to the
Five Nations, who signed the first treaty. As he had not yet resigned
his headship, he could with propriety speak of the business in the
manner here quoted. Major Denny, in his journal, under the date of
November 7th, says i " Brant is expected here in a few days," but in
his account of the councils no mention is made of the Mohawk chief,
which he would have been apt to do if he had been present. More
over, St. Clair says in his correspondence with the War Department,
that Brant was on his way to the Muskingum with a large party, but
upon receiving a message from him turned back, and pursuaded the
.Shawnese also to do the same. There is a legend, however, in the St.
Clair family, that it was a son of Brant who was present, attracted by
the charms of Louisa St. Clair, and not by any particular interest in
the treaty.
158 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
the Five Nations was permanently secured. But there
could be no peace while the Shawnese and Miamis stood
out. The murderous attacks on the pioneers in Kentucky
and on the Virginia and Pennsylvania borders were re
newed, and it soon became apparent to General St. Clair
that severe measures would have to be adopted towards the
obstreperous Indians. Captain Brant does not appear ac
tively on the scene again for two years, but he did not omit
any opportunity to denounce the treaties of Fort Harmar,
even while he was receiving tokens of the high regard of
the United States government.1
St. Clair visited his family, and afterwards proceeded to
New York to concert measures with General Knox for the
settlement of the Indian difficulties. While there, he had
the pleasure of assisting at the inauguration1 of his old
Commander-in-Chief, and devoted friend, as first President
of the United States. "We are indebted to Colonel May,
who had also left the banks of the Muskingum, for a
graphic description of the ceremonies of that ever-memor
able day. There were ringing of church bells, prayers for
blessings upon the head of him who had come to be the
head of the nation, parading of the military, an imposing
administering of the oath in the Senate Chamber, followed
1General Washington, in a letter to Governor Clinton: " It gives
me pleasure to learn from you the friendly sentiments of Captain
Brant; and with you I think they merit cultivation; but he has not
been candid in his account of the conduct of General St. Clair, nor
done justice in his representation of matters at Muskingum. It is
notorious that he used all the art and influence of which he was pos
sessed to prevent any treaty being held; and that, except in a small
degree, General St. Clair aimed at no more land by the treaty of Mus
kingum than had been ceded by the previous treaties." —Washington's
Writings, Vol. X., p. 122.
2General Washington "was clad in a full suit of dark-brown cloth,
manufactured at Hartford, Connecticut, with a steel-hilted dress-sword,
white silk stockings, and plain silver shoe-buckles. His hair was
dressed and pondered in the fashion of the day, and worn in a bag
and solitaire. The oath was administered by Chancellor Livingston;
near him stood Roger Sherman, Alexander Hamilton, Richard Henry
Lee, Generals Knox and St. Clair, Baron Steuben and other distin
guished men." —Journal of Colonel John May, p. 133. Note by William
M. Darlington.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. -159
in the evening, by illuminations and fire-works, very bril
liant, which the people applauded, as they did every thing
on that joyous occasion. The President was very dignified,
but Colonel May thought bim much altered in countenance
since he last saw him.
After this, St. Clair remained in New York, waiting
patiently for legislative action to enable him to proceed
with tbe new government, aud for the formulation of an
Indian policy. There was a personal matter, too, in which
he was deeply interested, concerning which it was his duty
to take counsel of his friends. It was no less than that of
resigning the Territorial Governorship, and returning to
Pennsylvania to enter actively into political life. After the
requisite number of States had adopted the Constitution,
the name of St. Clair was freely canvassed in connection
with the position of Vice-President. In July, 1789, while
he was waiting on the new government, he received an
urgent letter from his old friend James Wilson, asking an
immediate interview for the purpose of deciding whether
he would stand for the governorship of Pennsylvania. It
was not St. Clair's manner to look back when once his
hands were upon the plow, but he found himself in a false
position in the West. He had no genius for speculation ;
his salary as Governor would barely cover his traveling ex
penses; his family was large, and his wife, who had been
accustomed to every comfort, was not well fitted for a
pioneer life. The mistake he made in leaving Pennsylvania
might be rectified by an early return. But a canvass showed
that the party led by General Mifflin, who kuew how to
catch the popular breeze, was in the majority. The de
moralization and discontent following the Revolution
favored the plans of those who had not been closely identi
fied with the party of Washington during the war.
It was late in the year before General St. Clair received
his final instructions and turned his face toward the West
again, to resume the work of constructing a government in
a wilderness filled with hostile savages, distant from the
supporting power, with an imperfect and unreliable system
of communication, and without adequate means. Immedi
160 Life and Publie Services of Arthur St. Clair.
ately after the treaty of Fort Harmar, the Indians were
more quiet than usual, only a few depredations having been
committed and those by the Miamis.1 But later this qniet
gave place to a predatory warfare on the borders of Penn
sylvania, Virginia, and Kentucky, in which all of the dis
satisfied tribes engaged. The Indians took possession of a
high point of land on the Ohio near the mouth of the Sci
oto, whence they sent out parties to waylay the boats pass
ing up and down the river. Thrilling events occurred,
which will be found duly recorded in Indian history, to
which the curious reader, who would sup on horrors is re
ferred.2 Something of these will be found related in the
St. Clair papers printed in this work. It is the purpose of
this memoir to touch on only the most salient points, and
the above reference to the general situation, will suffice for
our purpose.
The citizens of Marietta gave special attention to the
preparation of a residence for Governor St. Clair, and in
the winter of 1 790, his son Arthur, twenty-one years of age,
and three daughters, Louisa, Jane, and Margaret, with a
middle-aged, sensible, colored woman who acted as cook and
housekeeper, took possession. Mrs. St. Clair still remained
in the East.3 Louisa, the eldest of the three daughters,
was about nineteen years of age, and is described by Pro
fessor Hildreth as " a healthy, vigorous girl, full of life and
activity, every way calculated for a soldier's daughter; fond
of a frolic, and ready to draw amusement from all and
1 Letter of Captain McKee, British Indian Agent, at Detroit, to Cap
tain Brant. See Life of Brant. Vol. II. p. 290. President Washington
attributed the mischief to the Shawanese.
A quarrel arose this year between the Miamis and Delawares, which
caused the latter to withdraw beyond the Mississippi river—an event
greatly deplored by the British agents as it threatened the destruction
of the Confederacy.
2Judge Innes, of Kentucky, estimated, in 1700, that within seven
years over fifteen hundred whites had teen killed, and twenty thous
and horses and other property stolen by the Indians. The statement
frequently made at this time that the savages were always the aggres
sors, was not correct. There were bad whites as well as bad red men.
*Hildreth'a Pioneer History, p. 262.
.
. -
• -"_
::
164 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
that struggle for freedom, and affording aid to the sur
vivors, should also be remembered by St. Clair at this time?
In a short time the name of St. Clair was given to the third
county and that of General Knox, who was concerned in
the drafting of the charter of the Society, to the fourth,
by Secretary Sargent, who, despite the modest protests of
the Governor, took good care to see that his own chief was
not neglected in the records.
The Governor remained at Fort Washington only a week,1
and then hastened on toward the Mississippi, where his
coming was looked for with great impatience. The inhab
itants of the French towns on that river had been persist
ent in their appeals to the old Continental Congress to give
them a government, and the President was very anxious
that General St. Clair should establish the forms of civil
government there as soon as practicable.2 The Governor
reached the Rapids of the Ohio on the 8th, where he remained
long enough to prepare dispatches containing speeches ad
dressed to the Indian tribes on the Wabash, which he trans
mitted to Major Hamtramck, commandant at Post Vincennes,
with instructions to send them to their destination
by Antoine Gamelin, a trader, who was very popular among
the Indians. It was St. Clair's plan to first organize the
Illinois country and then return to Post Vincennes, by
which time he hoped favorable replies would be received
from the Wabash Indians.3 But as it turned out otherwise
he was, upon his return, compelled to leave the work of or
ganization at Vincennes to Secretary Sargent, and hasten
to the east to provide means for the chastisement of the
savages and the relief of the suffering inhabitants of the
various posts.
Governor St. Clair arrived at Kaskaskia in February.
He found the inhabitants in an impoverished condition,
and rendered incapable of taking any action looking to
permanent improvements, on account of the uncertainty of
1 Records of Governor North-western Territory—Stale Department.
* St. Clair Corres)iondence.
' St. Clair Papers. Letter to Major Hamtramck.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 165
the tenure of the lands they occupied. He described the
condition of the people in a report to the Secretary of Sta'e:
"The Illinois country, as well as that upon the Wabash,
has been involved in great distress ever since it fell under
the American dominion." He said the inhabitants had
contributed supplies liberally to the support of the troops
under General Clark, for which they received certificates
which had been repudiated by the State of Virginia, by
whose authority the expedition led by Clark bad been un
dertaken; that, after the Illinois regiment had been dis
banded, " a set of men, pretending the authority of Vir
ginia, embodied themselves, and a scene of general depre
dation and plunder ensued. To this succeeded three suc
cessive and extraordinary inundations from the Mississippi,
which either swept awuy their crops, or prevented their
being planted. The loss of the greatest part of their trade
with the Indians, which was a great resource, came upon
them at this juncture, as well as the hostile incursions of
some of the tribes, which had ever before been in friend
ship with them ; and to these was added the loss of their
whole last crop of corn by an untimely frost. Extreme
misery could not fail to be the consecpience of such accumu
lated misfortunes."
The order of Congress,1 relative to the survey of the
lands, could not be carried out, because the people could
not pay the Surveyor. St. Clair's aid was invoked, in
pathetic terms, by Father Gibault, the venerable priest of
Kaskaskia and Cahokia: "Your Excellency is an eye
witness," said he, "of the poverty to which the inhabitants
are reduced, and of the total want of provisions to subsist
on. Not knowing where to find a morsel of bread to
nourish their families, by what means can they -support the
expense of a survey which has not been sought for on their
parts, and for which, it is conceived by them, there is no
necessity ? Loaded with misery, and groaning under the
weight of misfortunes accumulated since the Virginia
troops entered their country, the unhappy inhabitants
1 St. Clair Papers. See lieport to Secretary of Stute, Vol. II., p. 136.
166 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
throw themselves under the protection of your Excellency,
and take the liberty to solicit you to lay their deplorable
situation before Congress." 1
St. Clair did every thing in his power, and went beyond
the technical restrictions formed by an authority a thou
sand miles away to relieve the distress surrounding him.
His familiarity with the French language proved a great
help to him in his work.
The county of St. Clair was erected, courts established,
and officers appointed, the same as iu other cases. The
county embraced the section of country extending from the
River Ohio northward to the mouth of Little Mackinaw
Creek, where it empties into the Illinois River.
1 St. Clair Papers. Letter of Father Gibault, Vol. II., p. 148.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 167
CHAPTER VII.
Ominous Signs observed in the Indian Country—The Chieftain Brant
and the British Again at Wore—Depredations on the Frontiers—
Failure W Attempts to Negotiate a Peace —The Indians Demand
that the Whites Sham. Remove east of the Ohio—Vigorous Meas
ures Resolved on—St. Clair's Conferences with Secretary of War
—Successful Expeditions of Scott and Wileinson—Expedition of
General Harmar and Severe Encounters with the Indians—St.
Clair Appointed Major-General and Commander-in-Chief—His Dis
astrous Campaign — Responsibility of the War DepartmentScandalous
Conduct of the Quartermaster-General—Report of
Congressional Committee Vindicating St. Clair from Blame—
Massacres of the White Settlers—Reorganization of Army
Under General Wayne—Failure of Negotiations Result in
Conquering a Peace—Murder of Messengers—Legend of Louisa
St. Clair.
Receiving from Major Hamtramck the information that
Antoiite Gamelin had failed to persuade the Wabasli In
dians to enter into a treaty with the Americans, Governor
St. Clair hastened to complete the work of organiz ition,
and on the 11th of June began his return journey. Before
his departure, he wrote to Major Hamtramck, advising him
of his purpose to prepare for a military movement against
the Indians on the Wabash, and that Colonel Sargent
would proceed to Post Vincennes, to make the civil apappointments,
organize the militia, and carry out the plan
lor the adjustment of land claims agreeably to the proclama
tion he had issued to the inhabitants of that section from
Kaskaskia.1
The report of Mr. Gamelin2 is of extraordinary interest.
It shows that the machinations of Brant and his British
friends had been successful, and that the Indians proposed
to tight to retain their country and force the Americans
1 Iiecnls tf Government Kortl.-west TriTitori/—St. Clair Vapcrs. Full ac
count is also given in this work of Secretary Sargent's proceedings at
Post Vincennes.
*Sxe Si. Clair Papers, Vol. II., p. 132.
168 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Cl«ir.
b ck across the Ohio. A Kickapoo chief said: "You in
vite us to stop our young men. It is impossible to do it,
being constantly encouraged by the British."
General St. Clair, after conferring with General Harmar,
determined to send an expedition against the Maumee
towns, under the command of that officer. A circular let
ter was issued to the County Lieutenants of Kentucky and
Western Pennsylvania, informing them that there was no
prospect of a peace with the tribes on the Wabash, and in
structing them to call out the militia allotted to their
respective counties, to rendezvous at Fort Washington by
the 15th of September. When the militia did arrive, Gen
eral Ilarmar was much disheartened, as they " were raw
and unused to the gun or woods." "One half," says Major
Denny, in his excellent journal, "serve no other purpose
than to swell their number. If the leading patriots of Ken
tucky don't turn out rascals, then some men that I know
are greatly mistaken." 1 Those from Pennsylvania were
but little better. In addition, a large portion of the arms
were unfit for use—many of the muskets and rifles being
without locks! The militia officers quarreled, and the men
were insubordinate. Colonel Trotter aspired to the com
mand, although Colonel Hardin was the senior officer.
Some of the men declared they would return home unless
Colonel Trotter could lead them, and a compromise be
came necessary.
When on the march, October 2d, the force was found to
consist of three hundred and twenty regulars under the
immediate command of Majors Wyllys and Doughty, and
one thousand one hundred and thirty three militia under
the command of Colonel Hardin, an old Continental officer.
The route was by old Chillicothe, at the headwaters of the
Little Miami, thence to Mad River, and thence to the
Miami or Omee River, which they struck near the ruins of
La Source's trading post. Here they cap' ured a Shawanese
Indian,' who informed them that the Indians were leaving
their village (distant about thirty mile.-) as fast as possible.
1 Military Journal of Major Denny, p. 344.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 169
Colonel Hardin was detached with six hundred light troops
and one company of regulars. He was instructed to push
for the Miami village, which was at the junction of the
St. Joseph and St. Mary rivers, and take every precaution
to keep his men under strict discipline. When he reached
the village on the loth, he found it deserted. Ou the 17ih,
he was joined by the main body, and the order was given
for the destruction of the buildings and the vast fields of
corn stretching along the bottoms of the streams. The
militia, regardless of discipline, broke into squads and
strolled about in search of plunder, but fortunately were
not disturbed.
The following day, Colonel Trotter was ordered out with
three hundred militia and thirty regulars, under Captain
Armstrong, with instructions to see if he could find traces
of the Indians. He returned at night without having ac
complished any thing. The next day Colonel Hardin went
out with the same command. Before he had proceeded very
far the militia began to desert, but this did not make him
more cautious. When distant from camp ten miles, he
suddenly came upon about one hundred Indians, "and,
owing to the bad order of his men, and their dastardly con
duct, was entirely defeated." At the first fire of the
Indians nearly all of the militia tied without firing a shot.
As usual, the regulars stood firm, and were cut to pieces.
"I lost one sergeant and twenty-one out of thirty men of
my command," says the brave Captain Armstrong in his
report, and was obliged to retreat. We should think it
was about time. All effort of Colonel Hardin to rally the
militia was unavailing. About seventy men were killed.
On the 21st, the army, having burned the Indian capital
and five villages and destroyed twenty thousand hushe's
of corn in ears—the object of the expedition—took up their
line of march back to Fort Washington, and encamped
eight miles from the ruins. At nine o'clock, at the solici
tation of Colonel Hardin, General Harmar ordered 'out four
hundred men, including sixty regulars, under Major Wyllys,
with instructions to return to the Indian town, on the headwa'ers
of the Miami, to surprise any parties that might
170 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
have returned there. The troops crossed the Miami early
in the morning, and it was the intention to surround the
village before making an attack. But the militia, led by
Majors Hall and McMillan, came upon a few Indians im
mediately after crossing the river, put them to flight, and,
contrary to orders, pursued up the St. Joseph for several
miles. The center, composed of the regular troops, was
soon afterwards attacked by the main body of the Indians,
under Little Turtle, and, although they fought with des
peration, were obliged at length to give way. The few sur
vivors fled in the direction taken by the militia, and met
them returning from the pursuit of the scattering Indians.
They were followed by the Indians, who attempted. to pass
the stream, but were repulsed. The savages did not per
sist in their attack, and the troops, after collecting the
wounded, returned to camp. The loss of the regular sol
diers was forty-eight men and two officers—Major Wyllys
and Lieutenant Frothingham—of the militia, not so man)-.
But the death of the brave Wyllys was a loss long felt and
mourned over.
Although this expedition was in most respects a complete
success, it was, owing to the bad conduct of the militia,
attended with a severe loss of regular troops, which called
forth censorious comments on General Harmar. That
meritorious officer, alter he had been vindicated by a courtmartial,
could not be prevailed on to continue in the ser
vice, and in the following year resigned his commission.
" Your friend, General St. Clair," said Washington, in
a letter to La Fayette, "resumes his functions as MajorGeneral."
1 It was even so. The result of St. Clair's visit
to Philadelphia and his report on affairs in the terri
tory, was: First, to send a formidable military force into
the Miami country, and erect a series of forts, as recom
mended by him the preceding year; and, secondly, to
send minor expeditions against the Wabash tribes to pun
ish them for their reckless marauding and refusal of the
offer of peace in the spring of 1790. A new regiment was
1Letter of the 19th March, 1791. Washmgton's Writings, Vol. X., p.
142.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 171
to be added to the military establishment, and General
St. Clair was to conduct the expedition against the Miami
towns in person, with General Richard Butler second in
command. The equipment was to he complete in all re
spects, and the most cordial co-operation was promised on
the part of the War Department.
While this promise was being indifferently regarded,
two expediiions were sent against the Wabash towns. The
first, under command of Brigadier-General Scott and Colonel
James Wilkinson, left the Ohio at the mouth of the Kentucky
river on the 23d of May, and marched directly for the Wea
village Ouiatcnon, on the Wabash.1 This and other im
portant towns were destroyed, and a few Indians killed and
captured. The second expedition was authorized by Gov
ernor St. Clair, on the 25th of June. It consisted of five
hundred mounted men, under the command of BrigadierGeneral
Wilkinson, and marched from near Fort Washing
ton, on the 20th of July, for the Indian village Ke-na-pacom-a-qua
(l'Anguille), situated on the Eel river, about
six miles above its confluence with the Wabash. This and
various other villages, and several hundred acres of corn
were destroyed, and a considerable number of prisoners
capture 1. This expedition was conducted with such celer
ity ami signal success, as to receive a special letter of thanks
from the Secretary of War, which was communicated to
Wilkinson through Governor St. Clair.
But how was it with the main expedition ? This entry
is found in Major Denny's Journal, under the date of Sep
tember 1st: "General St. Clair appears exceeding impa
tient at the delay or detention of some of the corps. The
Quartermaster-General, Hodgdon, not yet come on, and
General Butler, the second in command, is also back.
Preparations for the campaign very backward." This,
when the army was to have moved in the summer. Whose
was the fault ?
The story may be told in a few words. The War De
partment had undertaken to provide an army, equip and
1 About eight miles below the present city of La Fayette.
172 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
provision it, and have the same at Fort Washington by the
10th of July. "In this case," wrote General Knox, "you
will have assembled a force of three thousand effectives, at
least, besides leaving small garrisons on the Ohio, in order
to perform your main expedition.1" In April, the Federal
part of the force was still to be recruited. There was a de
mand for labor every-where, and such men as were finally
induced to etdist were not the kind of material out of
which the best soldiers are made. Nor was this the only
difficult}- ; no money had yet been furnished General But
ler to pay the men ami provide stores for them. The mil
itia were no better; some of them even worse. All were
unaccountably delayed on the upper Ohio until the sum
mer had been far spent.2 The levies that now straggled
into Fort Washington gave such evidence of a love of
strong drink as to necessitate their removal to Camp Lud
low, beyond the reach of temptation. There was neither
quartermaster nor commissary ; the commanding general
was both.3 He was also chief artisan, and superintended
the construction and repair of every thing, from gun-car
riages to cartridge-boxes—the thousand details incident to
the creation and preparation of an armed force, without
the means which may be commanded in an old country.
Here the ingenuity and restless energy of the commanding
general supplied what it had been the duty of quarter
master and other subordinates to furnish. But though
genius were never more fruitful and energy more tireless,
yet even St. Clair found it impossible to improve the qual
ity of the powder;4 to make an elephantine pack-saddle
fit the back of an Indian pony; to transform raw lines into
veteran soldiers in a week ; make honest men out of rogues ;
nor by command, similar to that of Joshua of old, stop the
sun in its course and delay the revolutions of the seasons.
It was the 7th of September before General Butler and
1 .SV. Cluir Papers, Vol. II., 1791.
• Ibid.
2 See testimony taken by Congressional Committee. Denny's Journal.
* Ibid. A number of officers testified that they experimented with
the powder, and found it had very little force.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 173
Quartermaster-General Hodgden1 arrived at Fort Washing
ton and St. Clair had already moved forward his two thou
sand men—not three thousand effectives, as promised by
the Secretary of War—about twenty-four miles.2 If he
had gone forward and constructed Forts Hamilton and Jef
ferson and then disbanded the militia and gone into winter
quarters, all might have been well. But St. Clair was a
strict soldier, and kept rigidly to orders. He saw ever hefore
him these passages in correspondence from the War
Department: " The President still continues anxious that
you should, at the earliest moment, commence your opera
tions." "He therefore enjoins you, by every principle that
is sacred, to stimulate your operations in the highest degree,
and to move as rapidly as the lateness of the season and
the nature of the case will possibly admit." Accordingly,
he pushed on. Forts Hamilton and Jefferson were con
structed under the greatest difficulties, as there were few
tools,3 and the rainy scaso^i had set in.
It was on the 24th of October that the little army left
Fort Jefferson and moved through the wilderness toward
the Maumee, where another fort was to be erected. The
frost had cut off the forage, the men were on half rations,
and the militia deserted in such numbers that the general
found it necessary to dispatch Major Hanitramck with the
First regiment, three hundred strong, to arrest them and
bring up the provisions that were supposed to be en mute.
The commanding general, who was now prostrated with
severe sickness, had left only about fourteen hundred men.
Every precaution was taken on the march and in camp to
guard against a surprise.
On the 3d of November, the troops encamped on high
1 St. Clair was sorely tempted to arrest and try the quartermastergeneral
for disobedience of orders and neglect of duty, but upon re
flection decided that in case of disaster it would be attributed to his
act.
2 St. Clair Papers.
2Testimony of officers. There were few axes, and but one cross-cut
saw. The axes were of such poor quality their edges would turn like
lead when used.
174 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
ground on a small creek supposed to be a branch of the
Maumee, but which was, in fact, a branch of the Wabash.
The high ground was barely sufficient for the regulars in
rather contracted lines, but it was the best that could be
found.1 The militia, under Colonel Oldham, passed beyond
the creek a quarter of a mile, and encamped in parallel
lines the same as the regulars. Before mid-night, General
Butler dispatched Captain Slough, with thirty-two men, to
reconnoiter in front of the lines. That officer was told by
Colonel Oldham that, in his opinion, the troops would he
attacked in the morning. He saw enough Indians in
the woods to confirm that opinion. He immediately re
turned to camp and communicated to General Butler what
he had learned, and added that if thought proper he would
go and make the report to General St. Clair. General But
ler remained silent for some time, and then, thanking Cap
tain Slough for his attention and vigilance, remarked that,
as he must be fatigued, he bad better go and lie down.2
Captain Slough obeyed. Geieral Butler neither communi
cated to General St. Clair the information be had received,
nor took any further precautions against the enemy.
On the morning of the 4th, a half hour before sunrise,
and when the men had just been dismissed from parade,
an attack was made on the militia. Simultaneously with
the crack of the rifle, was heard the yells of the savages.
The militia fled pell-mell through the first line of regulars,
who were attempting to form, and caused some confusion.
However, the enemy was well received by the front line,
but almost instantly the entire camp seemed to be sur
rounded by an unseen foe. The men were pressed toward
the center, where were huddled the craven militia, and fell
by scores under the unerring aim of the savages, who fired
from the woody covert surrounding them. Every-where
could be seen St. Clair, who had left his sick quarters upon
the first fire, endeavoring to reform the lines. He repeat
edly directed the men to charge against the skulking foe,
1 Major Denny's Journal. Mnjnr Denny selected the ground for the
camp. The surrounding country was low and wet.
'• Statement of Captain Slough before the committee.
Life and Public Services of Arthur £7. Clair. 175
who fled before the bayonet, and then returned to the
attack. The officers attracted the aim of the savage?, and
thcy fell on every hand. Among those wounded early was
General Butler, but he continued to urge resistance. When,
at last, all of the artillery officers had been either killed or
wounded, and the fire of the Indians became so near and
deadly from all points as to threaten the annihilation of
the force, preparation was made for a retreat. Such of the
wounded as could be moved were gathered together atid a
charge was made against the enemy, under cover of which
the retreat was accomplished. "A few officers," says Major
Dennv, "put themselves in front. The men followed.
The enemy gave way, and, perhaps, not beins; aware of the
design, we were, for a few minutes, loft undisturbed. The
stoutest and most active now took the lead, and those who
were foremost in breaking the enemy's lines were soon left
behind. At the moment of the retreat, one of the few
horses saved had been procured for the General; he was on
foot until then; I kept by him, and he delayed to see the
rear." The General commanded his Aid, Major Denny, to
push to the front and rally a force sufficient to check the
panic, and then turned his attention to the care of those
who were partially disabled by wounds. As he and the
officer in command of the rear-guard moved over the
route, evidence was seim on every hand that the retreat
had been a disgraceful flight, even to the very gates of
Fort Jefferson,1 where, at last, under the assuring presence
of Major Hamtramck's regulars, terror gave place to con
fidence.
What pen can fittingly describe the scenes of that day ?—
the unexpected attack, the panic, the brave resistance of a
devoted few, under the inspiring example of noble officers,
the charge after charge through the forest, the destruction
of the lines, the gradual encircling of the camp by the
unseen foe, the terror of the poor wretches huddled in the
center, who had fled without a shot, the groans and shrieks
1 St. Clair's Official Report, Nov. 10. Vol. II.
176 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
of the wounded under the scalping knife after the retreat,
and the flight through the wilderness?
A word more and we shall ring down the curtain on this
scene. The killed and missing numbered thirty-seven offi
cers and five hundred and ninety-three privates; the woun
ded, thirty-one officers and two hundred and fifty-two pri
vates.' Among the former were Major-General Butler,
Major Ferguson, of the artillery, Major Hart and Major
Clark, of the first regiment, and Lieutenant-Colonel Old
ham, of the militia. Among the latter were Colonel Sar
gent, who acted as Adjutant-General, Lieutenant-Colonel
Gibson, Major Butler, and Viscount Malartic, a volunteer
aid. The escape of St. Clair was miraculous.1 Not an offi1
The followine description of St. Clair's conduct during the action,
taken from the Narrative of the Campaign, will be>t show the coolness
and coinage of the man :
" During the engagement, General St. Clair and General Butler were
continually going up and down the line; as one went up one, the other
went down the opposite. St. Clair was so severely afflicted with gout
as to be unable to mount or dismount a horse without assistance. He
had four horses for his use; they had been turned out to feed over
night, and were brought in before the action.
''The first he attempted to mount was a young horse, and the firing
alarmed him so much that he was unable to accomplish it, although
there were three or lour people assisting him. He had just moved him
to a place where he could have some advantage of the ground, when
the horse was shot through the head, and the boy that was holding
him through the arm. A second horse was brought, and the furniture
of the first disengaged and put on him ; but at the moment it was done,
the horse and servant who held him were killed. The General then
ordered t he third horse to be got ready, and follow him to the left of
the front line, which by that time was warmly engaged, and set off on
foot to the point designated. However, the horse and man were never
heard of afterward and were supposed to have both been killed. Gen
eral St. ('lair's fourth horse was killed under the Count de Malartie,
one of his aids, whose horse had died while on the march.
"I In the day of the battle, General St. Clair was not in his uniform;
he wore a coarse cappo coat, and a three-cornered hat. He had a long
cue, and large locks, very gray, flowing beneath his beaver. Early in
the action, when near the artillery, a ball grazed the side of his face,
and cut off a portion of one of his locks. During the action, eight
balls passed through his clothes and hat. After his horses were killed,
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 177
cer exposed himself as much as he, and yet it was always
with a calm courage seeking to reach the enemy effectively.
"I have nothing to lay to the charge of the troops," said
he, in his official report, "but their want of discipline, which,
from the short time they had heen in service, it was impos
sible they should have acquired, and which rendered it very
difficult when they were thrown into confusion to reduce
them again to order, and is one reason why the loss has
fallen so heavy on the officers, who did every thing in their
power to effect it." It was a wonder to General Harmar,
at the time, and is no less a wonder to us to day, that the
commanding general, who was known to be competent,
whose courage had been often proved, who knew the supe
riority of the Indians, trained from infancy to war on such
a tield, should think of hazarding with such people and un
der such circumstances, his reputation and life, and the lives
of others.
St. Clair hoped to have an inquiry made by military
officers, but that being impracticable the matter came be
fore Congress, and was there very thoroughly examined.
he exerted himself on foot for a considerable time during the action,
with a degree of alertness that surprised every body who saw him.
"After being on foot for some time, and when nearly exhausted, a
pack-horse was brought to him. This he rode during the remainder of
the day, although he could scarcely prick him out of a walk. Had he
not been furnished with a horse, although unhurt, he must have re
mained on the field.
" During the entire action, General St. Clair exerted himself with a
courage and presence of mind worthy of the best fortune. He was
personally present at the first charge made upon the enemy with the
bayonet, and gave the order to Colonel Darke. When the enemy first
entered the camp by the left flank, he led the troops which drove them
back, and when a retreat became indispensable, he put himself at the
head of the troops which broke through the enemy, and opened the
way for the rest, and then remained in the rear, making every exertion
in his power to obtain a party to cover the retreat; but the panic was
so great, that his exertions were of little avail. In the height of the
action, a few of the men crowded around the fires in the center of the
camp. St. Clair was seen drawing his pistols and threatening some of
them, and ordering them to turn out and repel the enemy."
12
178 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
The opinion of the committee must stand as the judgment
of the historian : —
"The committee conceive it but justice to the com
mander-in-chief, to say, that in their opinion, the failure
of the late expedition can in no respect be imputed to his
conduct, either at any time before or during the action ;
but that, as his conduct in all the preparatory arrangements,
was marked with peculiar ability and zeal, so his conduct
during the action, furnished strong testimonies of his cool
ness and intrepidity."
The Indians outnumbered the whites, and they fought
as they never fought before. The fact must be kept in
view that they had been rendered desperate by the desola
tion of their homes, and that they were fighting against a
people who were trying to deprive them of their lands.
After the expedition of General Harmar, the Indians re
ceived from the British posts large supplies of provisions
and ammunition which rendered abortive the destructive
expeditions of the Americans. The British influence was
further exerted in the direction of forming an Indian con
federacy among the Western tribes. In this last engagement
many young Canadians and half-breeds and one hundred
and fifty Mohawk warriors participated. The whole was
commanded by the distinguished Miami chief, Little Turtle.
It is now believed that Little Turtle had the council and
assistance of another and an older chief. " General St.
Clair," says the author of the life of Brant, " probably died
in ignorance of the fact that one of the master spirits
against whom he contended, and by whom he was so sig
nally defeated, was none other than Joseph Brant^—Thayendanegea.
How it happened that this distinguished chief,
from whom so much had been expected as a peace maker,
thus suddenly and efficiently threw himself into a position
of active hostility, unless he thought he saw an opening
for reviving his project of a great North-western confed
eracy, is a mystery which he is believed to have carried in
his own bosom to the grave.1 "
1This interesting fact, Mr. Stone says, he derived from Thayendanegea's
family. It was, however, the opinion of St. Clair that Joseph
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 179
After his return to Fort "Washington, on the 9th of No
vember, St. Clair wrote his official dispatch to the Secretary
Brant was engaged in this contest, as a number of his followers were
present at the battle. There is a legend that the Brant who was en
gaged in that affair was a son of Joseph Brant. The story is known as
" The Legend of Louisa St. Clair," "and is as follows:
The proposed Indian treaty at Duncan's Falls, in 1788, being post
poned and adjourned to Fort Harmar, the Indians prepared for peace
or war, and were hostile to holding a convention to adjust peace meas
ures under the guns of Harmar and Campus Martins. Young Brant,
son of the famous Chief of that name, came down the Tuscarawas and
Muskingum trail with two hundred warriors, camped at Duncan Falls,
nine miles below Zanesville, and informed Governor St. Clair, by run
ner, that they desired the treaty preliminaries to be fixed there.
The Governor suspected a plot to get him to the Falls and abduct
him, yet nothing had transpired of that import. He sent Brant's run
ner back with word that he would soon answer by a ranger. Hamilton
Kerr was dispatched to Duncan's Falls to reconnoiter and deliver St.
Clair's letter.
A short distance above Waterford Kerr saw tracks, and keeping the
river in sight crept on a bluff, and raised to his feet, when hearing the
laugh of a woman, he came down to the trail, and saw Louisa St. Clair
on a pony, dressed Indian style, with a short rifle slung to her body.
Stupefied with amazement, the ranger lost his speech, well knowing
Louisa, who was the bravest and boldest girl of all at the fort. She
had left without knowledge of any one, and calling "Ham"—as he
was known by that name—to his senses, told him she was going to
Duncan's Falls to see Brant. Expostulation on his part only made her
laugh the louder, and she twitted him on his comical dress—head turbaned
with red handkerchief, huntingshirt, but no trowsers, the breechclout
taking their place. Taking her pony by the head, he led it up
to the trail, and at night they suppered on dried deer meat from Ham's
pouch. The pony was tied, and Louisa sat against a tree and slept,
rifle in hand, while Ham watched her. Next morning they pursued
their way, and finally came in sight of the Indian camp. She then
took her father's letter from the ranger, and telling him to hide and
await her return, dashed oil' on her pony, and was soon a prisoner. She
asked for Brant, who appeared in war panoply, but was abashed at her
gaze. She handed him the letter, remarking that they had met be
fore, he as a student on a visit from college to Philadelphia, and she
as the daughter of General St. Clair, at school. He bowed ; being ed
ucated, read the letter, and became excited. Louisa, perceiving this,
said she had risked her life to see him, and asked for a guard back to
Marietta. Brant told her he guarded the brave, and would accompany
her home. In the evening of the third day, they arrived with Ham
180 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
of War, which contains a comprehensive account of the
disastrous campaign, and charged his aid, Major Denny,
-with its prompt delivery. This report is a model in its
way, cool, dispassionate, magnanimous in a high degree.
The nobleness of spirit so characteristic of St. Clair is con
spicuous in eveiy line. There is no fault finding, no allu
sion to the shameful mismanagement in the War Depart
ment (that he knew would be made apparent in the in
vestigation he was determined to have), and no allusion to
the neglect of Colonel Oldham and General Butler to ad
vise him of the presence of the enemy on the night of the
3d of November : had not their lives been sacrificed on that
fatal day? Major Denny discharged his commission with
his usual promptness and good judgment. Upon his ar
rival in Philadelphia, which was at & late hour on the 19th
of December, he waited immediately upon the Secretary
of War, and delivered his dispatches. "The morning
after my arrival here," he says, "General Knox called at
my quarters and took me to the President's, where we
breakfasted with the family, and afterwards had much talk
on the subject of the campaign and defeat."
In striking contrast with this simple statement, is that
highly imaginary account attributed to Mr. Custis, which
is found copied into the works of several historians ; among
others, Irving gives it the weight of his approval. In that
work of the imagination we have the picture of an officer
in full uniform, dismounting in front of the President's
house, towards the close of a winter's dav in December.
Kerr at the fort, whore she introduced Brant to her father, relating
the incident. After some hours, he was escorted out of the lines, re
turned to the Falls, and went up the valley with his warriors, without
a treaty, but in love with Louisa St. Clair.
In January, 1789, he returned, took no part in the Fort Harmar
treaty, was at the feast, and asked St. Clair in vain for his daughter's
hand.
In the fall of 1791, Brant led the Chippewas for a time during the
battle at St. Clair's defeat, and told the warriors to shoot the general's
horse, but not him. St. Clair hnd four horses killed, and as many bul
let holes in his clothes, but escaped unhurt. Had St. Clair given his
daughter to young Brant, would the alliance have averted war ?
Jjife and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 181
The porter would have refused him admittance, as the
President was at dinner, and had company, but the offi
cer was on pressing public business, and would not be
denied. A servant went after the Secretary, Mr. Lear, but
to that functionary the officer refused to deliver his letters.
Thereupon, Mr. Lear returned to the dinning-room, and in
a whisper communicated to the President what had passed.
Washington withdrew into the hall, and in a short time
returned and resumed his seat at the table. That evening
Mrs. "Washington had a reception. The President appeared
there with his usual serenity. Neither then nor at the
table did he allude to any thing unusual. After the com
pany had gone and only his secretary remained, Washing
ton suddenly became extremely agitated, and poured forth
a torrent of bitter invective against St. Clair. This was
followed by some moments of calm reflection, during which
the President apparently regretted the exhibition of pas
sion. " This must not go beyond this room," said he, in a
subdued and altered tone; "General St. Clair shall have
justice. I looked hastily through the dispatches; saw the
whole disaster, but not all the particulars. I will receive
him without displeasure; I will hear him without preju
dice; he shall have full justice."1
Here we have the man Washington giving way to his
passions in the most unreasonable manner, contrasted with
the philosopher Washington, cool, just and magnanimous.
This work of the rhetorician is calculated to make the
pages of a book attractive, but it does not give one as
natural and exalted a view of the President as the plain
account of Major Denny.
Among the St. Clair papers is a pleasant note from Mr.
Lear, changins: the hour for a conference which had been
agreed on, to the hour of breakfast the following day,
when the President would be pleased to receive his old
friend. The. meeting was altogether cordial, and, with this
scene in our mind, we read, with exalted sentiments of
esteem for Washington, the following passage in the work
1 Rush's Washington in Dnmrsl'r Life.
182 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
of Chief Justice Marshall: "More satisfactory testimony
in favor of St. Clair is furnished by the circumstance that
he still retained the undiminished esteem and good opinion
of Washington."
The success of the Indians in this affair inspired them
with the hope that they might eventually drive the in
truding whites back across the Ohio. They resumed the
predatory system of warfare against the settlements and
were more ferocious than ever before. To describe the
bloody scenes that ensued for twelve months would require
a volume for that alone. The settlers on the Muskingum
and the Miamis withdrew within the forts. General St. Clair
resigned his commission in the army and General Anthony
Wayne was appointed to succeed him. Congress resolved
on the vigorous prosecution of the war. The military es
tablishment was to be increased to four regiments of in
fantry and a corps of cavalry; the whole, with artillery, to
consist of five thousand men. Profiting now by the disas
trous experience of the past, there was to be no six months'
levies, and it was agreed to give the new commander two
years in which to raise, equip and discipline his army be
fore moving against the Indians. Meanwhile, negotiations
looking to peace were undertaken by the Secretary of War
through Ca;itain Brant. That astute chieftain accepted the
commission, and appeared in public councils as an advo
cate of peace. If sincere in this new character, the weight
of his influence hitherto, and of the present treacherous
counsels of Lord Dorchester, Governor of Canada, were
still sufficient to lead the Indian Nations to refuse to accept
a peace on any other basis than the Ohio River as a boun
dary line. The court paid to this able chief by the Ameri
can Government during the period that the British held
the posts in the West, forms one of the most curious chap
ters in the history of the United States.
While General Wa}'ne wns making preparations for the
field, negotiations for a peace were continued. Mr. Free
man, Major Trueman, and Colonel Hardin, who were dis
patched from Fort Washington, on different routes, in the
spring of 1702, with flags of truce and presents, were all
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 183
murdered by the Indians. General Rufus Putman, how
ever, was more successful. Aided by the Moravian mission
ary Heckewelder, he succeeded in effecting a treaty with
the Wabash and Illinois nations, which bound them to
peace. Arrangements had been made with the Indians at
Au Glaize in the summer, that commissioners of the
United States should attend a conference of the Indian
nations in 1793, on the Miami of the lakes. The com
missioners selected were Benjamin Lincoln, Timothy Pick
ering, and Beverly Randolph. They went by way of Niagara
to confer with Governor Simcoe, and were detained there
b}7fine speeches and feasting until near the middle of July.
They had been invited by the Indians to meet them at
Sandusky, but were detained by adverse winds at Fort
Erie, and, finally, had to return to Niagara. In a few weeks,
they received a communication from the Indian Nations,
which concluded as follows:
" Brothers : We shall be persuaded that you mean to do
us justice if }'ou agree that the Ohio shall remain the
boundary line between us. If you will not consent thereto,
our meeting will be altogether unnecessary. "
This was accepted as the red man's ultimatum, and the
commissioners returned without having accomplished their
mission.
Thereupon, General Wayne pushed his preparations for
war. General Wilkinson, who was second in command,
stationed at Fort Washington, with one thousand men
marched to the scene of St. Clair's defeat, collected the
bones of the victims, and erected on the spot Fort Re
covery. The garrison stationed here had a sharp conflict
with the Indians, under Little Turtle, on the 30th June,
1794, which cost the lives of the commanding officer,
Major McMahon, and twenty-one others. The Indians
displayed great courage, and made their attack in as good
order as regular troops. There were among them several
officers in British uniform.
On the 8th of August, General Wayne marched against the
Indians. Profiting by the experience of the past, he moved
184 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
with extreme caution and only in superior force. As the
forts had already been built by St. Clair, there was nothing
to delay him. He had regular troops thoroughly drilled
for this service, and was supported by about eleven hundred
mounted Kentnckians under General Scott. The Indians
took up a strong position in some fallen timber under the
guns of the fort at the rapids, recently erected by Governor
Simcoe, and there awaited the attack from Wayne. They
attempted no surprise, but posted behind the thick wood,
rendered almost inaccessible by a dense growth of under
brush and fallen timber, with their left protected by a rocky
bank of the river, they thought themselves secure. They
were formed in three lines within supporting distance of
each other, extending for two miles at right angles with the
river. General Wayne formed in two lines, .the first begin
ning the attack early on the morning of the 20th. Finding
that the Indians were attempting to turn his left flank, he
moved his second line to the support of the first, and
directed General Scott to turn the enemy's right. This
disposition checked the flanking movement on the part of
the Indians. Wayne simultaneously moved his first line
forward with instructions to charge with trailed arms, and
rouse the Indians from their covert at the point of the
bayonet.1 This charge was made with irresistible impetu
osity, and being followed by a sharp tire, the Indians were
completely routed. Within an hour, the enemy had been
driven two miles, and the victory was complete.2 The loss
of the Americans in killed and wounded was one hundred
and seven. That of the Indians is unknown, but it must
have been very great.
After the battle, there was some sharp correspondence
between Major Campbell, commanding the British fort,
and General Wayne, which showed bad temper, but as
there was no blood spilled it is hardly worthy of mention.
The result of this campaign was a treaty between the
United States, represented by General Wayne* and the
lLife of Brant, Vol. II., p. 386.
2 Ibid.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 185
Indian nations, concluded at Greenville. August 3, 1795,
by which peace was finally secured on terms which gave
to the Americans the lands of the Iudians in the North
west, with the exception of small reservations. The power
of the Western tribes was forever broken.
186 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
CHAPTER VIII.
1793-1798—Interest in National Polities—Against the French Par
ty—The Scheme to Return to Pennsylvania Abandoned—Second
Stage of Government in the North-western Territory—Meeting
op the Legislature—Important Wore in the Revision op the
Code of Laws—Rapid Increase in Population—The Connecticut
Land Company—Commotion at Post Vincennes and Judge Tur
ner—Political Excitement—Spanish and .British Intrigues in
the North-western Territory and Kentucey—Influence and Bril
liant Talents of Wileinson—Proclamation of St. Clair Warning
Against the French Agents—George Rogers Clare a French
Major-General—Division of People of Territory into Parties.
The year succeeding the close of the disastrous cam
paign of 1791, was a period of unrest and anxiety to St.
Clair. He found the ties that bound him to the people of
the East gradually and surely relaxing, and the advantage
which had been his on account of his ability and promi
nence in the War of Independence, now that he was ab
sent, was less certain, and might soon disappear altogether
before the claims of less deserving men. A chance seemed
to offer for him to resrain his position. The representative
of the Westmoreland District, having met with some oppo
sition, had indicated a purpose not to stand again as a can
didate for Congress, and it was proposed by the Federalists
that St. Clair should make the canvass. The suggestion
was eagerly embraced, and the advice of friends freely
invited.
To his friend James Ross he confided the delicate task
of sounding the political managers, and of deciding on a
policy to be adopted. The names most generally men
tioned were those of Mr. Todd and Mr. Smilie. As the
latter was backed by Mr. Finley, it was not thought possible
for Mr. Todd to succeed ; if he did, " the public would not
be benefited by the change." Mr. Ross was warned against
Mr. J , of Greenslmrg, who, notwithstanding " his pro
fession to the contrary, was suspected of being at heart a
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 187
very Democrat." It was evident that St. Clair longed to
be actively employed in the arena of national polities, in
which he saw many associates and friends of Revolu
tionary days conspicuously engaged in support of the
principles he espoused. Pennsylvania had not main
tained her rightful position —nay, was degenerating under
the dangerous political teachings of Gallatin and others.
To his friend Ross St. Clair poured out his heart freely ;
though his recollections of La Fayette and other French
patriots of the Revolution were most tender, he was op
posed to the Gallican party in America. " I have seen
the bill for cutting off the intercourse with France,"
said he, " which I hope is a law ere now. It was a
step which should have been taken long ago, but is
better late than not at all. Now let the country be
put in a state of defense, and we shall have peace. One
good consequence has flowed already from the firmness and
decision of the President and Senate—the d d Faction
that were dragging the country to ruin are completely dis
comfited. I hope, too, the time is not distant when Penn
sylvania—poor, degraded Pennsylvania—under your aus
pices, will regain her position of weight and influence in
the Union from which she has been detruded." And
concludes with a fine line from his favorite Horace :
" NU desperandum Teucro duce ct auspice Teucro.1"
But St. Clair was destined not to share in the leadership
at the Capital. After careful inquiry it was found wiser to
adhere to a plan of campaign already outlined by the man
aging Federalists. This action was what St. Clair himself
had advised, but it forever cut him oft from active partici
pation in all that was most congenial. He left a sciety
which he was so well fitted to adorn, and turned his face
again towards the West with reluctance. The disappoint
ment was even greater to Mrs. St. Clair, who still lingered
among the beloved hills of Pennsylvania, and who hoped
that some turn in affairs would reunite the family and re
store their fortunes.
1 MS. Letter, Jtme 21, 1792.
188 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
While in Philadelphia, in 1792, Governor St. Clair looked
faithfully after the interests of the people of the North
western Territory. As he still held to the opinion that the
laws framed by the Territorial Legislature did not conform
to the Ordinance of 1787, he induced Congress to pass an
act giving to the Governor and Judges authority to repeal,
at their discretion, the laws by them made; an authority
judiciously exercised later. This seemed to be the only
practical method for correcting the error against which the
Governor had protested. His views on a judicial system,
on the practice in England, on the rights of the people, and
the duties of magistrates, wiJl be found forcibly stated in
the papers and addresses included in this work, and, upon
examination, to be the basis of the system of laws estab
lished in 1795—a s}-stem, in the language of a distin
guished jurist, " not without many imperfections and blem
ishes ; but it may be doubted whether any colony, at so
early a period after its first establishment, ever had one
so good." 1
In this work of revision, the Governor and Judges con
formed to the provisions of the Ordinance, as the former
had insisted should be done in 1789-90. For the first time,
a complete system of government was created for the
North-west, by which the blessings promised by the Ordi
nance were realized. Laws for the regulation of society—
subjecting real estate to execution for debt; directing the
manner of executing writs of attachment ; for the speeily re
covery of small debts; concerning defalcations; for the
punishment of larceny; for the limitation of actions; for
the recovery of fines and forfeitures; for the settlement
of intestates' estates; for assessing and distributing taxes;
regulating inclosures; concerning trespassing animals; di
recting how husband and wife may convey their estates;
for the speedy assignment of dower; for the partition of
land; giving remedies in equity; against forcible entry and
detainer; allowing foreign attachments ; limiting imprison
ment for debt; governing proceedings in ejectment; sup1
Chase.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 189
pressing gaming; establishing orphans' courts; for the
relief of the poor, etc., etc.—were adopted. The judicial sys
tem was so changed as to fix the general court at Marietta and
Cincinnati, and a circuit court was established, " with power
to try, in the several counties, issues in fact depending before
the superior tribunal, where alone causes could be finally
decided." Lastly, as if with a view to create some great
reservoir, from which, whatever principles and powers had
been omitted in the particular acts might be drawn accord
ing to the exigencies of circumstances, they adopted a law,
providing that the common law of England, and all gen
eral statutes in aid of the common law, prior to the fourth
year of James I., should be of full force within the terri
tory.1
St. Clair had had this in view from the beginning of his
administration, but the opinions of the first Judges were
not in harmony with his own. He believed such legislation
warranted by one of the articles of compact of the Ordi
nance, which provides that the people of thcTerritory shall
always be entitled to judicial proceeding according to the
course of common law. This statute was subsequently
recognized as having the same force as any other adopted
law of the Legislature and the bench.2 But, on the other
hand, it has been objected, that the Ordinance permitted
the adoption of laws only from the- then existing laws of
the original States, and that this could not warrant the
adoption of written and unwritten English law, especially
as the Virginia act, upon which it was based, hail been re
pealed.3 Again it may be urged in support of the first
view, if the action of the Governor and Judges was
in technical violation of that provision of the Ordinance
regulating the formation of laws, it was in keeping with
the spirit of the more important compact already refer
red to, and with the history of all English colonies
who made the common law the foundation of free gov
ernments. Upon this rock the Americans planted them1
Chase's Preliminary Sketch, p. 26.
1See case Thompson's Lessee vs. Gibson, 2 0. R. 340.
1 Chase's Statutes of Ohio, Vol. I., p. 190.—Note.
190 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
selves when resisting the oppressions of George III.1
Whatever benefit could be derived rrom its obligatory
recognition in the administration of government and the
interpretation of laws, was secured to the people of the
North-west by this action of Governor St. Clair and the
Judges. If there was wanting the power to legislate, as
afterwards held by some, this was cured by the failure of
Congress to disapprove of the law.2
The act of Congress which gave to the Territorial Legis
lature this important authority, also empowered a single
judge of the general court, in the absence of the others, to
hold the terms. This was intended to remedy the difficulty
of securing the attendance of any two Judges at any one
point in so vast a territory ; but the citizens saw their own
interests jeoparded by this change. Governor St. Clair
pointed out the danger to the Judges and to the President.
In the Eastern part of the Territory lands had been bought,
generally, either of the Ohio or the Miami Company ; of the
former Judge Putnam was a director, and of the latter Judge
Symmes was the sole manager. Both Judges were members
1"When the difficulties with the home government sprung up, it
was a source of immense moral power to the colonists that they were
able to show that the rights they claimed were conferred by the com
mon law, and that the King and Parliament were seeking to deprive
them of that common birthright of Englishmen."—Cooley on Constitvr
tional Limitations, p. 32.
" These statutes [common law] upon the points which are covered
by them are the best evidence possible They are the living charters
of English liberty to the present day; and as the forerunners of the
American Constitutions and the source from which have been derived
many of the most important articles in their bills of rights, they are
constantly appealed to when personal liberty or private right are
placed in apparent antagonism to the claims of government."—Ibid.—
Note.
* " The legislation [by territorial bodies with plenary power], of course,
must not be in conflict with the law of Congress conferring the power
to legislate, but a variance from it may be supposed approved by that
body if suffered to remain without disapproval for a series of years
after being duly reported to it. Clinton v. Englebrecht, 13 Wall. 434, 446. See Williams v. Bank of Michigan, 7 Wend. .ti,'!9: Swan r. Wil
liams, 2 Mich. 427; Stout v. Hyatt, 13 Kan. 232."—Cooley on Constitu
tional Limitations, p. 33. Note.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 191
of the Supreme Court. Every land dispute was liable to be
traced to some transaction in which one or the other of
them was concerned, and in the hearing they would sit in
judgment. But the danger was increased by giving to a
single judge the power of a full bench. Though never so
upright, yet judgment was liable to be affected insensibly
by the bias of interest.1
The same vigilance for the protection of the rights of the
people is observable in the remarks of Governor St. Clair
on the motion of Judge Symmes to extend the jurisdiction
of a single magistrate in the trial of small causes, not in
volving over twenty dollars. He pointed out the hardship
to the debtor resulting from summary proceedings ; the in
crease of litigation through convenience of small courts, and
the injury to society as a consequence. "These evils," said
he, " have all proceeded from extending the jurisdiction of
single magistrates; and the mischievous influence of it acts
with so much regularity, that, knowing the character of a
people as litigious or otherwise, you may tell with certainty
what is the spirit of their laws ; and, contrariwise, know
ing the nature of their laws, you may with absolute cer
tainty infer the character of the people." "Although "
added he, " the administration of justice should certainly be
so cheap as that every man may be within the reach of right,
it should also be so dear, particularly at the first step, as
that every body may be deterred from entering into law
suits wantonly, or to gratify a revengeful disposition."
I have thus referred briefly to the more important part of
the work of St. Clair in laying the foundation of the five
republican states which hold to-day such an important place
in the Union, for the purpose of calling attention to the
ability, versatility, and noble principles of the man. To re
count in detail his labors in administering the government
from 1790 to 1802, is not within the scope of this memoir.
It certainly was not smooth sailing at any time, but there
was a period when his efforts were embarrassed in the most
exasperating way by subordinates in the War and State DelSt.
Clair in letter to Secretary of State, December 14, 1V94.
192 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
partments. In the former, Hodgdon, the QuartermasterGeneral,
who had been largely responsible for the results of
the Indian campaign of 1791, seemed to have a controlling in
fluence ; and after Mr. Jefferson left the State Department,
that baleful influence was mysteriously extended. But for
his regard for General Washington, St. Clair would have
sent in his resignation. He finally stated the facts to the
President in a private letter, and there was a speedy inter
ference for his relief from headquarters, and it was so im
perative that during the remainder of Washington's admin
istration and the administration of Adams, he was treated
with the respect to which he was entitled.
The unfortunate French who had been led to seek for a
new paradise on the banks of the Ohio; the destitute in
habitants of the ancient posts on the Wabash and Missis
sippi, and the settlements of the Revolutionary soldiers,
caused St. Clair the greatest anxiety, and required efforts
for their relief and protection that were almost superhuman.
He made repeated journeys from one part of the Territory
to another, sleeping upon the ground or in an open boat,
and living upon coarse and uncertain fare. At one time he
traveled in this manner a distance of five thousand miles,
without the means of protection against inclement weather,
and without rest. These hardships proved a severe strain
upon his constitution, and attacks of the gout were more
frequent than formerly. In the winter of 1794-95, he was
prostrated with a fever which brought him within view of
the silent land. And yet the exigencies of his office did
not permit him to omit any personal attentions.
After the treaty of Greenville, the tide of emigration was
to the North-west. New settlements appeared upon the
Muskingum, the Scioto, on the Miami even as far up as
the Mad River, on the Wabash, on the Illinois, and the Mis
sissippi. In the north-eastern part of the territory a new
light appeared. The 4th of July, 1796, was celebrated on
Conncaut (Conneaught) Creek, in New Connecticut land, by
General Moses Cleveland and companions, who had come
from the rugged hills of Old Connecticut to survey that
part of her Western Reserve lying cast of Cuyahoga River.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 193
They were the first English-speaking people to take posses
sion.1 Connecticut had, with characteristic prurience, when
the cessions of lands were being marie by the States, reserved
to herself a large section west of Pennsylvania. The west
ern part of this, to the extent of half a million of acres,
was granted to those of her citizens who had suffered by
depredations of the British during the Revolutionary War,
and the remainder, supposed to contain about three million
acres, was sold. General Cleveland appeared as the general
agent of the Connecticut Land Company, and conducted
his operations from the east bank of the Cuyahoga, near
Lake Erie.2 The purchase of General Samuel II. Parsons,
near the Mahoning River, known as the "Salt Spring Tract,"
marie in 1788, also attracted the attention of the settlers.
This progress of civilization required the extention of the
Government, and new counties were erected as rapidly as
consistent with the public welfare.
In 1795, Governor St. Clair issued a proclamation for di
viding St. Clair county, which was too large for the trans
action of public business. The part lying south of a line
running from the Mississippi through New Design due east
to the Wabash was designated as the county of Randolph—
a graceful compliment to the distinguished statesman of
Virginia, who had given the weight of his support to
the Federal Constitution at an important crisis, and who
was a member of Washington's cabinet.
Upon the surrender of the posts on the lakes by the Brit
ish, the Detroit country was set apart as the count}- of
Wayne—being appropriately named after the victorious
general who bad won peace from the Indians, and forever
extinguished the hopes of the British commanders of a new
confederacy which should embrace Canada and the North
west. Adams, Jefferson, and Ross were soon after formed in
the same manner, the first and third embracing all of theSci1
Whitt/csey'a Early History of Cleveland, p. 181.
2The Connecticut Company controlled the soil of the Western Re
serve until 1809 See Whittlesey, p. 168. The work is an interesting and
important contribution to the history of the North-west.
13
194 Life and Public Services of Arthur Si. Clair.
oto country, in which great numbers of settlers were locating
lands, and the second the section between Pennsylvania and
a line extending from the mouth of the Cuyahoga to the
Muskingum. It will be observed that Governor St. Clair,
in making choice of names and recognizing eminent char
acters, was equally happy in exhibiting a spirit of magna
nimity and paying a tribute to friendship.
At last, St. Clair was moved to undertake a land enter
prise, and, in 1795, in company with Senator Jonathan
Dayton and Israel Ludlow, of New Jersey, and General
James Wilkinson, contracted with John Cleves Symraea
for the purchase and settlement of the seventh and eighth
ranges, between Mad River and the Little Miami. The
survey was completed after much trouble, and on the 4th of
November Israel Ludlow laid out a town, which was called
Dayton, from the name of one of the proprietors. Judge
Svmmes being unable to complete his payments and make
title to what he had sold, the land reverted to the Gov
ernment, and St. Clair did not profit by his undertaking.
Daniel C. Cooper, who had assisted in making the survey,
partly by the acquisition of preemption rights, and partly
by agreement with the settlers, became the titular proprie
tor of the town.1
The act which permitted the holding of the Supreme
Court by a single judge was productive of many unpleas
ant complications, which taxed the address and patience of
the Governor sorely to adjust. Congress had made no pro
vision tor the payment of the expenses of the officers and
to carry out the provisions of the Ordinance for the estab
lishment of the government over so vast a territory, and
the instructions of the President for the relief of the French
inhabitants, would consume, in traveling expenses alone,
1 Curtcm's Sketch, p. 11. Nineteen families removed from Cincinnati
and formed tlie settlement of Dayton. Among tliese settlers were
Benjamin and William Van Cleve, and the three brothers McClure,
James, John, and Thomas.
The failure of Svmmes and the transfer to Cooper led to a good de; 1
of litigation, in which Dayton, Ludlow, St. Clair, and Cooper were par
ties.
Lift and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 195
their salaries. The fir.-t Judges declined to go with the
Governor and Secretary to the Far West, and St. Clair was
never ahle to secure at any point beyond Cincinnati a full
court. He met the emergency well and prudently, but the
responsibility was irksome, and it required a sacrifice of
time and strength he should never have been called on
to make at his time of life.
Judge Turner, who was arrogant and dicta'orial in the
extreme, succeeded, both at Post Vincennes and Kaskaskia,
in putting every body by the ears, and necessitated the active
interference of the Governor to quiet the storm. He pur
posed having Henry Vanderburg, judge of probate and
justice, impeached for some informality in the administra
tion of office; and in the Mississippi country he removed
William St. Clair, clerk of the court of St. Clair county,
for presuming to keep the records of the court at Cahokia
instead of Kaskaskia. The Governor, in order to accom
modate the inhabitants, had provided that the courts should
be held at stated periods, at three different places, and the
clerk of the court, in the same spirit, kept the books of
record at Cahokia, where they were accessible to the great
est number of land-owners. But Judge Turner, without
authority, directed that Kaskaskiashould be the only countyseat,
and, without waiting for an explanation, in the most ar
bitrary manner, commanded the clerk to produce the books,
within twelve hours, at that place. He also, without au
thority, appointed a Mr. Jones assistant clerk, and placed
the hooks in his possession. The Governor required "Wil
liam St. Clair to assert his rights, and rebuked Judsre
Turner for his high-handed proceedings. Subsequently,
the inhabitants of the Mississippi country preferred charges
of oppression and corruption against the Judge, to the Sec
retary of State, which, in due course, were referred to Con
gress for proceedings in impeachment. The committee, to
whom the matter was referred, reported that, on account of
distance and difficulty in commanding the attendance of
witnesses, it would he better to have the investigation con
ducted within the Territory. Accordingly, the papers were
196 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
sent to Governor St. Clair, with instructions to make in
quiry, and report.1
Another embarrassment arose in the Governor's inability
to find u competent lawyer to accept of the office of At
torney-General for the Territory. The remuneration was
so precarious no lit person practicing before the courts
could be induced to undertake it. There was necessity for
such an officer, and, in the emergency, the Governor, in
1796, prevailed on his son, Arthur St. Clair, Jr., a promis
ing young attorney at Pittsburgh, to remove to Cincinnati
and take the office. This was an unfortunate step, as it
was at great personal sacrifice on the part of the son, and
subjected the Governor to unjust criticism, some years
later, when party passions were aroused in an effort to ob
tain political control. Young St. Clair directly gained a
a position of prominence and influence in the Territory,
due entirely to superior abilities and an agreeable address.
In contemporary correspondence and publications he is re
ferred to in terms of respect.
A subject, which attracted some attention during these
formative years, was the extending of excise duties on
spirituous liquors of domestic production to the Territories
as a part of the United States. Persons selling foreign
liquors were required to take out a license. This was ex
tending the revenue system to the Territories, and was
taxation without representation. It met with little other
opposition than harmless criticism, but there were not
wanting evasions. The Attorney-General supplied the
Secretary of the Treasury with an opinion that the Fourth
Article of Compact of the Ordinance extended all of the
acts of Congress to the Territory. St. Clair, in a letter to
Oliver Wolcott, controverted this view. He took the
ground that the Fourth Article was intended to apply to
the States that should be formed out of the Territory
when admitted into the Union on an equality with the
1American State Papers. Annals of Congress.
Judge Turner himself went to Philadelphia and asked to be heard,
but his petition was laid on the table. The matter was referred back
to the Territory, but was never heard from again.
Life and Public Seroices of Arthur St. Clair. 197
original States, and not while in a territorial condition ;
that, if intended otherwise, the people would have been
given a representation, a participation in the benefits of the
general government, and that the judicial powers of the
government would have been extended over the Territory.
The attempt in the Congress of 1702-93 to extend the law
imposing a duty on spirits distilled within the United
States to the Territory North-west of the river Ohio, failed,
notwithstanding it was earnestly pressed by the adminis
tration.1 In 1794, an act was pass: d authorizing the Presi
dent to erect revenue districts and appoint collectors
therefor "in the Territories North-west and South of the
river Ohio," in order to facilitate and secure the collection
of revenue on distilled spirits and stills. It extended the
jurisdiction of the " judicial courts " of the Territories to
all cases originating under the act.2
For several years after the passage of the Ordinance, the
country lying west of the Alleghany range had an uncertain
status. The three leading European powers regarded it by
no means desirable or essential that it should become a
part of the Bepublic, and th"y intrigued to prevent that
consummation. "We have seen how the British retained the
posts, and encouraged Brant in his efforts to form an In
dian confederacy whose eastern limi's should be the Ohio;
and how, growing bolder, Mr. John Connolly was dis
patched by the Canadian authorities to Kentucky to per?uade
the people that they were being sacrificed by the
people of the East, and that their darling object—the free
navigation of the Mississippi —could be best secured
through an alliance with His Britannic Majesty. Mr. Con
nolly's visit was well timed—as he supposed. It chanced
that the inhabitants south of the Ohio, in the exercise of
that freedom believed to he a part of the inalienable rights
of American citizens, fancying their interests were being
neglected by the general government, talked a great deal
and threatened dire consequences if something were not
1 Marshall* Life of Washington, Vol. V., p. 379.
2 .1 nn ill of Congress.
198 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
immediately done to secure unrestricted commerce on the
inland waters. Mr. Connolly found out how much im
portance should be attached to such popular gasconade, for
directly he hinted the. nature of his mission, ho was invited
to leave for Canada by the shortest route.
But Spain attempted a bolder stroke. That government
formed ibe design of detaching the Western settlements
from tbe Union, and erecting them into an independent
state, under thc protection of tbe Spanish King. Tbe in
ducement "held out was tbe free navigation of tbe Missis
sippi. To pn mote the scheme several influential citizens
of Kentucky were pensioned, and settlements on tbe banks
of tbe Mississippi were promoted by donations of land.
Tbe corresj ondence of the day shows that many Americans
were attracted by these advantageous offers, and the occu
pation of the land north of the Ohio was greatly retarded
thereby. But tbe emigrants did not take kindly to Span
ish domination, und many of them removed to the North
western Territory or to Kentucky. The settlement at New
Madrid, which was, perhaps, the most prominent, was
abandoned early.
This Spanish intrigue is traced to the year 1787, when
the Kentuckians became greatly alarmed at a report that
Mr. .Jay bad proposed to concede the exclusive control of
tbe Mississippi to Spain for a series of years. A delegate
meeting was called for the following year. It was held as
advertised, and an address to Congress issued in which tbe
natural right of tbe people to navigate tbe Mississippi was
asserted, and a demand made for the forcible protection of
that right, if necessary. Prior to this, in February, 17*8,
Kentucky bad petitioned for admission into tbe Union and
had been refused. It was while the people were thus ex
cited that tbe suggestion was insidiously made for them to
act independently, and receive from Spain the privilege of
conducting an unrestricted commerce down the rivers to tbe
Gulf. Hon. John Brown, a member of the old Continental
Congress, bad been selected to present this petition, and on
making a report of his failure to the convention above
referred to, sitting at Danville, he did not speak confidently
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 199
of the future prospects of Kentucky. In a letter to Judge
Muter, he said he did not think: that the Eastern States
would ever assent to the admission of Kentucky ii.to the
Union as an independent State, unless Vermont or Maine
were brought forward at the same time; that there was a
jealousy of the growing importance of the West; and that
it was generally expected that the district would declare its
independence, and proceed to frame a constitution of gov
ernment, He then added: "This step will, in my opinion,
tend to preserve unanimity, and will enahle you to adopt,
with effect, such measures as may be necessary to promote
the interest of the district. In private conversation with
Mr. Gardocpii, the Spanish minister at this place [New
York], I have heen assured by him in the most explicit
terms, that if Kentucky will declare her independence, and
empower some person to negotiate with him, that he has
authority, and will engage to open the navigation of the
Mississippi for the exportation of their produce, on terms
of mutual advantage. But that this privilege can never be
extended to them while part of the United States, by reason
of commercial treaties existing between that court and
other powers of Europe." 1
There was strong temptation in this. The Union was
little more than a rope of sand. What could it do for a
people isolated as were those of the West ? If independent,
what could they not do for themselves? The situation waa
afterwards graphically described by General Wilkinson:
" The people of the West were open to savage depredations;
exposed to the jealousies of the Spanish government; un
protected by that of the old confederation ; and denied the
free navigation of the Mississippi, the only practicable
channel by which the products of their labor could find a
market."2 Thus situated, there was a free expression of
opinion at the Danville meeting not at all inconsistent with
their attachment to a republican government, but which
has, since the blessings of the Union became fully realized,
1See Butler's History of Kentucky, p. 172. American State Papers.
* Wilkinson's Address, Memoirs, Vol. II., p. 119.
200 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
been magnified into something more serious, for partisan
designs. The purpose of the Spanish government is clear
enough, but it is quite as certain that only a very few
Americans sympathised with that purpose.
It would seem that the communication thus opened im
proved the business interests of the Kentuckians. One of
the first persons to attempt a mercantile venture at this
time was General James Wilkinson. He shipped a cargo
of tobacco to New Orleans, and by his address secured a
contract with the Spanish Governor for a regular supply,
not only of this product, but of flour and bacon, the gov
ernment to be the purchaser of all he might send.
Wilkinson had settled in Kentucky after the close of the
Revolutionary War, and established himself as a merchant.
His agreeable manners and superior talents placed him in
the front as a leader in all public afl'airs. " Was an address
to be written, which should pour forth the feelings of Ken
tucky, a debate to be opened on her vital interests, Wilkin
son was equally the author of the one and the speaker of
the other. So varied, rich, and polished were the powers
and acquirements of this singularly versatile person, that
whether in the field of Saratoga, the cabinet of Governor
Miro. or in the conventions of the backwoodsmen of Ken
tucky, he drew all eyes upon him, and was looked up to
as a leader and chief."1
Wilkinson's mercantile expedition was a fortunate one for
Kentucky. " Previous to that time all those who ventured
on the Mississippi had their property seized by the first
commanding officer whom they met, and little or no com
munication was kept up between the countries."2 The
military reputation of Wilkinson carried his property be
yond the petty officers to New Orleans, where, although at
first seized by the Intendant, it was permitted to be sold
without inivmcnt of dutv. Wilkinson had followed his
property closely, and he so played upon the fears of Gov
ernor Miro, that advantageous terms of trade were ac1
Bnllers History of Kentucky, p. 175.
2Clark's relation to T. Pickering. Wilkinson's Memoirs, Appendix 2.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 201
corded. "This changed the face of things, ami was pro
ductive of a new line of conduct on the part of the Span
iards."1
But this success came near wrecking "Wilkinson's future
prospects. He was accused of being a party to the Spanish
intrigue for a separation of Kentucky from the Union; hut
no distinct proof in support of the charge was ever ad
duced,2 and we may fairly conclude that the accusation had
its origin in jealousy and party policy. When the at
tempts of the Spaniards were renewed later, Wilkinson
was in command of the United States forces in the North
western Territory, and although he received communica
tions from below, his conduct was strictly in the interest
of the government.
In 1793, Citizen Genet, besides other extraordinary
things, attempted to enlist an army in the Western country
for the invasion of Louisiana, and, which is not the least
remarkable of the events of this period, he obtained the
consent of George Rogers Clark to command the expedi
tion as "a Mujor-General in the Armies of France, and
Commander-in-Chief of the Revolutionary Legions or. the
Mississippi." The French Government not doubting that
the American Republic would make common cause with
France, provided Genet with blank commissions, which
were to be filled up for those officers who would join the
army. The President had issued a proclamation of neu
trality, but nothing daunted, Citizen Genet addressed him
self directly to the real sovereigns of America, He met
with hearty sympathy from a small number of prominent
politicians, including Mr. Jefferson, Governor Mifflin and
Chief Justice McKean,#of Pennsylvania. In Philadelphia
a "Democratic Society" in imitation of the famous clubs
of Paris, was formed. Fresh from this source of inspira1
Clark's account, American State Papers.
*nildrtlh. Vol. IV., p. 135.
Also see Mann Butler's History of Kentucky for a fair and honorable
presentation of the facts. The savage attack of Marshall, in his history,
on Wilkinson and others, can only be explained on the ground that
partyism is unreasoning and unfair.
S
202 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
tion, the zealous agents of Genet repaired to the Western
country to spread the true democracy. A society was organ
ized in Lexington, and Kentucky was soon filled with
enthusiasm for the French cause.
President Washington early advised Governors St. Clair
and Shelhy of the projected movement, and communicated
to them the names of the agents1 dispatched from Phila
delphia hy the French Minister to put his plans into execu
tion. These men found no such sympathy north as south
of the Ohio. Governor St. Clair promptly issued a pro
clamation, informing the citizens of the contemplated
invasion of the Spanish territory, and warning them of the
dangerous consequences of participating in it. Governor
Shelhy took no public recognition of the communication
of the President, and when advised hy Governor St. Clair
of the movements of General Clark and the French agents,
did not attempt to interfere. To Mr. Jefferson, Secretary of
State, he expressed this sympathetic opinion: "I have
great doubts even if they attempt to carry this plan into
execution, provided they manage their business with pru
dence, whether there is any legal authority to restrain or
to punish them; at least before they have actually accom
plished it." 2
In the same paper in which was published Governor St.
Clair's proclamation, appeared the call of General Clark
for recruits, but the latter was careful to keep beyond the
official reach of the Governor. Quite a number of venture
some characters crossed over the river and joined the
French army, which, however, was destined never to draw
1Charles Delpeau, Maturin, La Chaise, und Gignoux. It surprised
Citizen Genet that it should bo considered.au offense for these men to
engage American citizens in a war against another power with which
the United States were nt peace; or for Americans to enlist in tho
armies of France. " Do not," said he to .lefferson, "punish the brave
individuals of your nation, who arrange themselves under our banner,
knowing perfectly well that no law of the United States gives to tho
Government the gad power of arresting their zeal by acts of rigor.
The Americans are free; they are not attached to the glebe like the
slaves of Ru>sia; they may change their situation when they please."
2 American State Papers.
Life and Public Services of Arthur Si. Clair. 203
Spanish blood. In the following year the President issued
a proclamation, warning the officers of their peril in enlist
ing men to make war on a nation with which the United
States were at peace ; and soon after instructed General
"Wayne to send " a detachment to take post at Fort Massac;
and to erect a strong redoubt and block-house, with some
suitable cannon from Fort Washington." Major Thomas
Doyle was intrusted with the execution of the order, which
was carried into effect in the spring. Congress passed an
act covering violations of neutrality, and, discouraged by
such obstacles, Genet abandoned the projected invasion of
Spanish territory.
Thus, unforeseen events prevented two thousand brave
Kentuckians, in the language of Monsieur La Chaise, from
taking from the despotic usurping Spaniards by force, under
the flag of the French republic, the empire of the Mis
sissippi, breaking the chains of the Americans and their
brethren, the French, and laying "the foundation of the
prosperity and happiness of two nations, destined by nature
to be but one, the most happy in the universe."
Out of this attempt of the French minister to violate the
neutrality of the United States, grew the most violent party
divisions. There had been a strong Galii can spirit mani
fested in opposition to a treaty with Great Britian, but it
broke out now with redoubled fury. This feeling extended
to the West. On the 24th of May, 1794, a numerouslyattended
meeting at Lexington adopted resolutions, "ex
pressive of unqualified censure upon the administration of
Washington, mixing all the difficulties and perplexities at
tending the Indian war, British outrages, and S, anish pro
crastination, in one mass of condemnation.1" Although the
people of the North-west were closely associated with those
of Kentucky in many ways, yet the prevailing sentiment
was iu support of the administration. The feeling of oppo
sition was intensified by the course of Great Britain in sub
jectins: American vessels to search. When, however, an
understanding was reached with that Government, France
1 Butler"* History of Kentucky, p. 2J4.
204 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
charged the United States with a breach of friendship,
an abandonment of neutrality, and a violation of engage
ments, and, thereupon, concluded au alliance, offensive and
defensive, with Spain.
Out of this grew new trouhle for the West. At the in
stance of France, Spain complained to the American Gov
ernment that the British treaty had sacrificed her interests
as weU as those of France, and made this a ground for de
laying the running of a boundary line and the delivery of
the posts on the Mississippi, as stipulated in the treaty of
1795. In July of that very year, Thomas Power, an agent
of Governor Carondelet, delivered a letter to Judge Benjamiu
Sebastian, of Kentucky, which contained the inform
ation that the King of Spain was "willing to open the
navigation of the Mississippi to the Western countrv, and
desirous to establish certain regulations, reciprocally bene
ficial to the commerce of both countries," and an invitation
to appoint agents to conduct negotiations at New Madrid.
Subsequently, Judge Sebastian met the Spanish commis
sioner, as ngrecd upon, but before the business was conclu
ded, word was received from Havana that a treaty had been
signed, which put an end to the business. This, however,
did not end the Spanish intrigue, which was renewed after
the alliance with France.
Early in 1797, there was great activity noticed among the
Spaniards at their upper posts on the Mississippi, which
Governor St. Clair reported to the Secretary of War. The
Indians were being tampered with, and inducements held
out for them to desert the Americans and join the interests
of Spain. In June, Thomas Power again appeared on the
scene as a bearer of a letter from Governor Carondelet to
General Wilkinson, who was found at Detroit. This letter
asked the General to delay the march of the American
troops for the posts on the Mississippi until the adjustment
of certain questions which were then pending between the
governments of the United States and Spain. General
Wilkinson declined to comply, and sent Power back to
New Madrid in care of Captain Shaumburgh. Theemissary
6aid in a letter to Don Manuel Gayo'so, Spanish Governor
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 205
at Natchez, that Wilkinson declared that the project was
chimerical ; that the inhabitants of the Western States hav
ing obtained all they desired, would not wish to form any
other political or commercial alliances; and that they had
no motive for separating themselves from Ihe interests of
the other States of the Union, even if Franco and Spain
should make them the most advantageous offers."
Spain professing to fear that Great Britain would send an
expedition from Canada through the North-western Terri
tory against the province of Louisiana, President Adams,
February 4, 1708, instructed General Wilkinson to employ
the force under him to oppose the British or other foreign
nation "who should presume to attempt a violation of the
territory of the United States, by an expedition through it
against their enemies." All pretexts for delay being ex
hausted, Spain now reluctantly carried out the provisions
of the treaty, and on the 5th of October, 1708, General
Wilkinson established his headquarters at Loftus' Heights,
on the left bank of the Mississippi, six miles north of the
thirty-first degree of north latitude. Here he erected Fort
Adams, which completely commanded the Mississippi.
Thus tbe free navigation of that mighty stream was se
cured to the people of the North-west, and the first step
taken towards its complete possession.
The further remark may be made in this connection, that,
through these events and the retaliatory measures adopted
by the American Government, party divisions were estab
lished in the North-western Territory, and political discus
sions became as violent and party methods as objectionable
as in the more populous East. We shall see to what extent
they were carried, and shall have abundant leisure to mor
alize on the uncertainty of political ties. Meanwhile the
^Territory was strongly for the administration.
The question of slavery proved to be one of great em
barrassment in the admiirstration of the Government. The
Sixth Article was regarded as a menace by the ancient in
habitants at Post Vincennes, as well as in the Illinois
country, and quite a number, as has been seen, removed to
the Spanish territory with their slaves. Those that re
206 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
mained behind presented a statement of the situation to
Governor St. Glair, and asked his opinion.
The Governor declared it to be his opinion that the Sixth
Article of the Ordinance was not retroactive ; that it was " a
declaration of a principle which was to govern the legisla
ture in all acts respecting that mutter, and the courts of
justice in their decisions in cases arising after the date of
the Ordinance." Retroactive laws were repugnant to free
governments, and in most of the United States were for
bidden. If Congress had intended the immediate abolition
of slavery, compensation would have been made to the
owners; but " they had the right to determine that prop
erty of that kind afterwards acquired should not be pro
tected in future, and that slaves imported into the Territory
after that declaration might reclaim their freedom."
This opinion was accepted as the true interpretation of
the Ordinance in the different stages of government.
To many of the present day this may savor of extreme
conservatism, and seem to disregard that higher law which
refuses to recognize property rights in human beings. But
an official charged with a trust, must execute it according
to the letter and in the spirit of the law. This is what
St. Clair did in the case of complications arising under the
Sixth Article of compact. When the time came for chang
ing the form of government for the eastern part of the Ter
ritory, he became the leader of the opposition to the move
ment to secure a suspension of the Sixth Article, and its
defeat was largely due to his eloquent protests in public
addresses.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 207
CHAPTER IX.
179S-I802—Advancement of Winthrop Sarofnt—William IIexry Harri
son appointed Seceetauy—New Stage in the Territorial Govern
ment—Popular Election op Leg. slature— Absolute Veto ok the
Governor—Right to Erect New Counties in Dispute—Popularity of
St. Clair—His Efforts to Preserve the Rights of the People—
The Common Law—Important Services of Jacob Burnet—Influ
ence of the Great Land Holders—Attempts to Introduce Slav
ery—Kentucey Claims Jurisdiction over Ohio River—Address to
President Adams —Division of the Territory—Harrison Governor
of Indiana Territory—The Virginia Colony in the Scioto Valley
—Political Schemes—Antagonism to Governor St. Clair—His
Ability as a Leader and Strength with his Party—Intrigue to Se
cure his Removal Defeated—Reappointed Governor by President
Adams—Movement for a State Government—Counter Movement—
Bitterness of Political Divisions—Colonel Worthington in Wash
ington —Triumph of the State Party—Attempt to Secure the
Removal ok St. Clair through Jefferson, and its Failure—Con
vention to Form a State Constitution—Address of Governor St.
Clair and its Consequences—True History of the Intrigues against
II im and His Removal.
In 1798, Winthrop Sargent, having been appointed Gov
ernor of the new territory of Mississippi, resigned the
office of Secretary, and was succeeded by William Henry
Harrison. The loss of his Secretary was keenly felt by
Governor St. Clair. Although they differed widely in
temperament and character—the one being ostentatious,
reserved, and formal: the other, "plain and simple in his
dress; open and frank in his manners; and accessible to
persons of every rank"' 1 —yet they had been friends on
the tented field and in civil life, and Sargent, admiring the
talents and courage of his chief, had always been faithful
to his interests. On the other hand, St. Clair stood loyally
by his friend, although sometimes he felt severely his want
of tact and prudence. Between the Governor and the new
Secretary there were no such ties—no bond of sympathy.
1 Burnet» Notes, p. 375.
208 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
They belonged to opposite schools. The one was growing
gray ; was accustomed to deference from others ; and held
tenaciously to the political opinions formed amid the surg
ing elements of revolution in the camp of Washington.
The other, young and ambitious, was ready to sympathize
with any movement that bad for its object the changing of
the old for a new order of tilings. Hence, it soon came to
pass that the Secretary formed plans about which he did
not consult the Governor.
It having been ascertained that the Territory contained a
population of five thousand white male inhabitants, and
was therefore entitled, under the provisions of the Or
dinance, to a change in the form cf government, Governor
St. Clair took the necessary action to effect it. lie issued
a proclamation calling on the legal voters to elect Repre
sentatives to a General Asscmblv, and designating Cincinnati
as the place of meeting. Under the Ordinance, only
freeholders, in fee-simple, of fifty acres within the Territory,
had the right to vote ; and their selection of Representatives
was restricted to freeholders of two hundred acres. The
Representatives convened at the appointed place on the 4th
of February, 1799. Their duty at this meeting was the
selection of ten freeholders of five hundred acre?, to be re
turned by the Governor to the President of the United
States, from whom were to be appointed, in the manner
prescribed in other cases, five persons to constitute a legis
lative council. After this form was complied with, the
Representatives adjourned to meet at Cincinnati on the
16th of September, and the Governor transmitted the ten
names to the President, who in due time appointed and
commissioned the five to be members of the Council.
By this change the authority of the Governor was
strengthened, He retained bis general executive control,
the right to make appointments of subordinate officers,
and had an absolute negative on all legislative acts; while
before he rightly claimed that the Governor must be one of
the majority adopting laws, yet as that view was contro
verted by the Judges, he acquiesced in legislation that did
not meet his approval. But under the new form of gov
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 209
ernment the Ordinance clothed him with an absolute
veto.
On the day appointed there was not a quorum present,
and it was not until the 24th of September that the two
houses were organized and ready to proceed to business.
On the following day Governor St. Clair met them in the
Representatives' Chamber, " and in a very eloquent ad
dress "' referred to the change in the form of government,
and the subjects which would claim their attention. His
opening words captured all hearts: "It is with much
pleasure," said he, "that I meet you now in General As
sembly, an event that has been looked forward to by the
people with some anxiety, and not without reason, having
been hitherto governed by laws adopted or made by per
sons in whose appointment they had no participation, and
over whom they had no control ; the wish to be withdrawn
from under that authority, and that the*laws which were
to direct their conduct and protect their property should be
made by their own representatives, was very natural, and
I congratulate them and you, gentlemen, that you are now
met for that purpose." Nevertheless, he expressed his con
viction that the system which had been superseded was
"full of wisdom and benignity," and adapted to the origi
nal circumstances of the Territory.
He then* proceeded to lay before them a full description
of the condition of the Territory, and " recommended to
their attention such measures as ho believed were proper to
advance the prosperity and happiness of the people." He
pointed out the defects of the system of laws that had been
adopted, and advised legislative action for their amendment
or confirmation. The necessity for meeting any expense
incident to the change, called for the early enactment of
revenue laws; an efficient military law was essential to the
order and protection of the people ; and as " the benefits
that result from early education and due instruction in the
principles of religion are of immense value to every coun
try," he urged that action be taken to make available the
1 Burnet's Notes, p. 300.
14
£10 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
generous provisions for them set apart by Congress, which,
he said, "might be done through trustees empowered by
Congress to dispose of the lands." In the same spirit, he
called attention to the importance of restraining the traffic
in intoxicating liquors; of prohibiting usury; of carrying
out that provision of the Ordinance requiring the Legisla
ture to pass laws founded in justice and humanity for pro
tecting the Indians in their property, rights, and libertyrand
for preventing wrongs being done to them; and providing
for the local administration of the laws. A delegate to
Congress should also bo chosen. He introduced his fa
vorite topic of the common law in the following words:
" The statute laws of England that were in force in the
American colonies of a later date than the fourth year of
Kin" James I. have not been adopted here, whereby the
people are deprived of many excellent regulations in use
in the United States, and praticularly of the celebrated Writ
of Habeas Corpus, which was not brought into practice
until the reign of Charles II., and is justly considered as
the best security against illegal and oppressive imprisonings
that was ever invented. It may be proper that all of
them, down to the time of the Revolution, which are not
inconsistent with the principles then embraced, should be
'declared to be laws in the Territory."
He concluded in the following language, which rises to
the importance of the theme, and has seldom been excelled
in state papers : " The providing for and the regulating the
lives and morals of the present and of the rising generation,
for the repression of vice and immorality, and for the pro
tection of virtue and innocence, for the security of property
and the punishment of crimes, is a sublime employment.
Every aid in my power will be afforded, and I hope we shall
bear in mind that the character and deportment of the peo
ple and their happiness, both here and hereafter, depend
very much upon the genius and spirit of their laws."
The General Assembly cordially responded to this ad
dress, and transacted the business of the session in the
same spirit The views of the Governor were fully carried
out, as the legislation of the session shows. How this was
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 211
done, deserves to be more fully related. It is an interest
ing fact (and mentioned here because we are describing the
beginning of government in the North-west), that, although
the General Assembly was composed of men of ability,
some of whom had been well, if not thoroughly educated,
yet the work of framing the most important of the laws
devolved almost entirely on Jacob Burnet, a member of the
Council. Mr. Burnet was of Scotch descent, a native of
New Jersey, and a graduate of Princeton College. He
was thoroughly read in the law, and had acquired a large
practice in the Territory. He possessed a judicial mind,
and expressed himself with perspicuity. Now, after nearly
a century has elapsed, and the work is passed in review, it
must be regarded as a happy circumstance that Jacob Bur
net was a member of that first Legislature.
Not only were laws passed on the important subjects
mentioned by the Governor and the territorial code of the
first stage confirmed, but a deficiency—provisions for the
partition of real estate ; assignment of dower ; relief of insol
vent debtors; settlement of disputes by arbitration ; divorce
and alimony ; equitable set-off, and execution of real con
tracts—was supplied.1 Two notable memorials were re
ceived and acted on during this session : One from the
French inhabitants of the Wabash and Mississippi, setting
forth the difficulties growing out of the early custom of in
closing their small farms by a common fence, and asking
legislative relief. A law was passed to regulate the inclos
ing and cultivating of common fields. The other memorial
was from Continental officers of the Virginia line, for whom
a district had been reserved between the Scioto and Little
Miami rivers, asking to be permitted to remove to their
lands with their slaves. The petition was rejected. Hap
pily the Ordinance stood in the way of the granting of any
such privilege. But we are assured by Judge Burnet, that,
even without the compact prohibiting slavery, such was the
public feeling, the request would have been denied by the
legislature by a unanimous vote. " They were not only
opposed to slavery on the ground of its being a moral evil,
1 Journal of Legislative Council.
212 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
in violation of personal right, but were of opinion, that,
whatever might be its immediate advantages, it would ulti
mately retard the settlement, and check the prosperity of
the Territory, by making labor less reputable, and creating
feelings and habits unfriendly to the simplicity and industry
they desired to encourage and perpetuate."
Very decided action was taken on the question of juris
diction between the Territory and the State of Kentucky,
to which Governor St. Clair had early called the attention
of the President. Kentucky, from the organization of the
North-western Territory, had claimed jurisdiction on tbe
north side of the Ohio to high water mark, on the ground
that the deed of cession from Virginia was for the lands
north of the river. The claim even went further ; that when
the river, at a high stage, passed a portion of its water
through a bayou, or over low ground, into the main stream
below, the ground so separated was an island, within the
meaning of the act of cession, the jurisdiction and soil of
which was vested in Kentucky. Hence persons " arrested
by territorial officers for crimes committed on board of boats
lying at the north shore, were released on habeas corpus, or
discharged on pleas to the jurisdiction of the Territorial
Courts." This conflict led to great embarrassment and the
constant defeat of justice. To meet this, a bill was passed
by a unanimous vote and approved of by the Governor, af
firming the right of concurrent jurisdiction, and legalizing
the services of process, civil and criminal, on any river,
or water-course, within, or bounding the Territory. While
this relieved the courts it did not settle the question. Some
years later Kentucky revived the dispute. An examination
was then made of the entire legislation of Virginia by Mr.
Burnet. He found that Virginia in 1789, in authorizing
the district of Kentucky to form a separate government,
had provided in one of the compacts of the act, "that the
State to be formed in the district, should never claim the
exclusive jurisdiction on the Ohio river; but that it should
be forever common to them and to the people and States
on the opposite side." These conditions were agreed to by
the people of Kentucky and embodied in the State Consti
Life and Public Services of Arthur Si. Clair. 213
tution. Thus it was found that Virginia had treated alike
the territories north and south of the river. This same
pretense of exclusive jurisdiction, was made to do service
years afterwards when the Fugitive Slave Law was being
enforced.
Towards the close of the session, the General Assembly
adopted a highly eulogistic address to President Adams.
It was the production of the pen of Mr. Burnet, and con
tained strong meat for those'of the new party, five of whom
were found to vote against it in the House. It contained
this allusion to the treaty of 1783, and to the Territory
North-west of the Ohio: "to your firmness we attribute the
enjoyment of the rich country we now inhabit." And this
to his administration: "Permit us, sir, to assure you, that
we are duly impressed with a sense of the wisdom, justice,
and firmness with which you have discharged this impor
tant trust;" and, " We believe that, regardless of the voice
of party spirit, which has striven to destroy our National
Counsels, you have kept the honor and happiness of the
United States constantly in view; and we ardently pray
that the wise Ruler of Nations may preserve your health
and life."
To Governor St. Clair was assigned the pleasing task of
communicating this address to the President. He per
formed his part in his usual graceful manner:
"In that, Sir," wrote St. Clair, "they imposed a very
agreeable duty upon me: for the sentiments appeared to be
such as were proper for them to express, and having pub
licly expressed them, the individuals will find themselves
prompted (had they no better motives, und I hope and be
lieve they have many better,) by the desire so natural to
men of leading others to think as they do, to propagate them
among their constituents ; and nothing can be more agree
able to me than being made the channel through which the
testimonies of confidence and respect, and of attachment
toward you are conveyed. I trust a short time only will
elapse before they are common to the whole American
people." 1
1 St. Clair Correspondence, for 1799 and 1800. Vol. II.
214 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
A wish that must have gratified John Adams; but the
five members of the House who did not approve the
Bentiments formed the leaven that changed the polities
of the North-western Territory, and, in due season, sent the
Governor back to the hills of Pennsylvania.
Notwithstanding the personal relations between the
Governor and the members of the General Assembly were
of the most cordial nature, yet they differed as to where
the power was lodged for the erection of new counties,
and the establishment of county seatB. St. Clair held that
the Ordinance had placed it exclusively in the Executive.
The others, that in case of new counties to be formed from
those originally erected by the Governor, it belonged of
right to the General Assembly. Bills for the erection of
six new counties had been passed by the Legislature and
vetoed by the Governor. This action provoked a remon
strance, addressed to Congress, against the unqualified veto
given to the Governor, and led to an unhappy contro
versy, which ended only when the Eastern District was
admitted as a State.
Before being prorogued by the Governor the General
Assembly issued an address to their constituents, in which
they reviewed their labors; referred to the provision made
by Congress for education, and concluded with this incite
ment to moral duty : " ' Religion, morality and knowledge
are necessary to all good governments.' Let us, therefore,
inculcate the principle of humanity, benevolence, honesty
and punctuality in dealings, sincerity, charity and all the
social affections.1"
The election of a Delegate to Congress resulted in the
choice of William Henry Harrison, by a vote of eleven to
ten cast for Arthur St. Clair, Jr. The office of Secretary
of State again became vacant, and was filled by the appoint
ment of Charles Willing Byrd, on the 30th of December.
Mr. Harrison made an active representative in Congress.
He secured the adoption of a resolution to subdivide the
surveys of the public lands, and to have them ottered for
1 Journal Legislative Council, 1799. Vol. II., post.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 215
sale in small tracts—a measure of vital interest to the set
tlers, many of whom under the system which left the
retailing of lands to the control of speculators, had been
unable to obtain homesteads, and were excluded from the
privilege of participating in the political affairs of the
Territory. He also secured an extension of the time of
payment, for those who had obtained pre-emption rights
to lands previously bought of Judge Symmes, lying north
of his patent.
Mr. Harrison was made chairman of a committee to re
port a plan for a division of the North-western Territory.
On May 28, 1800, Governor St. Clair addressed him a letter
recommending that the division be made into three districts
—the first with the Scioto as the western boundary, and
Marietta as the seat of government; the second, whose west
ern boundary should be a line drawn from that part of the
Indian boundary opposite the Kentucky, with Cincinnati as
the capital ; and the third, all of tho- Territory lying west of
the Middle District, with Post Vinceunes as the seat of
government. This division to be only temporary until
there should be a population sufficient to cary out the pro
visions of the Ordinance for the erection of states. But it
was objected that this would delay the formation of a State
from the Eastern district, and, Mr. Harrison being in the
interest of the State party, the division was made into two
districts. The new district known as Indiana Territory,
was organized with Mr. Harrison as Governor, and Colonel
John Gibson, of Pennsylvania, as Secretary. With the
organization of this Territory, Governor St. Clair's con
nection with the Wabashaud Mississippi country terminated.
William McMillan was chosen ti till the unexpired term
of Mr. Harrison as delegate in Congress, and Paul Fearing
for the new term. These changes required the election of
new men to fill the vacancies in tho General Assembly.
The most notable one was the appointment of Solomon
Sibley, of Detroit, to take the place in the Council of Henry
Vanderburgh, who had been excluded by the division of
the Territory. This occurred in December, 1800.
Since the advent of Moses Cleveland and associates in
216 Life and Public Services of Arthur *S7. Clair.
the Territory, Governor St.- Clair had been somewhat embarassed
in the administration of government in the North
eastern District, as it was known that the jurisdiction of
the United States there was regarded with a jealous eye. The
settlers did uot recognize the Territorial Government, and,
of course, took no part in the affairs of Washington County,
in which they had been included by Governor St. Clair's
proclamation. They petitioned Congress for relief, and
failing there laid a statement of their grievances before the
General Assembly of Connecticut, in 1798. In 1800, on
account of losses and delays in their enterprise, due to a
lack of civil government, the Land Company asked the State to abate the interest due upon their payments. l Hap
pily the difficulty was removed this year by the transfer of the
State claim of jurisdiction to the United States, and through
the President the fee of the soil by patent to the Governor
of the State, for the use of grantees and purchasers, claim
ing under her. 2 This district was immediately erected into
a county by Governor St. Clair, who gave to it the name of
Trumbull, and established the county seat at "Warren. He
issued a proclamation for the election of a Territorial
Representative. 3
Governor St. Clair heard of the death of General Wash
ington while he was at Cincinnati in January, 1800. The
loss of this most eminent man and best of friends, affected
him deeply, and he withdrew from the public to commune
with his own heart. Let no pen offend the sacredness of
that retirement by attempting to describe the grief of St.
Clair as he recalled the past, and the tender, confiding
friendship of the departed hero. Saturday, February 1st
1 Whittlesey's Hist. Cleveland, p, 354.
2 See U. S. Land Imws, 104.
2"The manner of conducting the election was after the English
mode. That is, the Sheriff of the county assembled the electors by
proclamation, presided at the election, and received the votes of the
electors orally, or viva voce." At this election, which was held on the
second Tuesday of October, all Trumbull County, that is, the Western
Reserve, cast 42 votes. Of this number General Edward Paine received
33 votes. —See Whittlesey, p. 358.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 217
was set apart for the purpose of paying the most solemn
funeral honors to the memory of the man who was "first
in war, first in peace, and first in the hearts of his country
men," at the military posts. St. Clair took part in the
ceremonies 'at Fort Washington, which were arranged by
the commandant.
Through the influence of the Virginians who had taken
possession of the Scioto district, the act which divided the
Territory also removed the seat of government from Cin
cinnati to Chillicothe. Accordingly, the second session of
the Territorial General Assembly, which began on the
first Monday in .November, 1800, was held at that place.
Governor St. Clair's address on this occasion, as on that of
the opening of the first session, was replete with important
suggestions as to legislation for the perfection of the govern
ment, and the general good. He assured the members of
the General Assembly that it would afford him pleasure to
join with them in every measure that would benefit the
people, and by carrying them faithfully into execution, to
give to them the effect desired.
Among the topics mentioned were, education, taxation,
justice to the Indians, and the purity of elections, in the
discussion of which he displayed the broadest and most
enlightened statesmanship. For the full text of this able
state paper the reader is referred to auother part of this
work. I refer here only to a sentence or two relating to
the Indians and elections, to aid in more clearly bringing
into view the character I am portraying:
"To act honestly, fairly and justly, and to perform our
promises to Indians with whom the nation is at peace," said
he, " is as much or more a duty than to those who are in the
highest state of civilization, and it is within the sphere of
your legislative power to compel it. It has long been a
disgrace to the people of all the States bordering upon the
Indians, both as men and as Christians, that while they
loudly complained of every injury or wrong received from
them, and imperiously demanded satisfaction, they were
daily offering to them injustice and wrongs of the most
218 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
provoking character, for which I have not heard that any
person was ever brought to due justice or puuishment."
On elections;
" The freedom and purity of elections are the very soul
and spirit of representative governments. If the electors
are under any undue influence, though they may give their
votes, they do not make their choice; and if they are cor
rupted, the wholesome stream which should flow through
the whole body politic is poisoned at its source, and must
carry that poison with it through all its ramifications."
The Governor then pointed out in what manner the law
for the election of Representatives should be amended to
prevent bribery, and alluded to a greater danger which
threatened the electors :
" The lands in this country have been generally held at
first by a few individuals in very large quantities, and sold
out by them in parcels on credit. Hence, it happens that,
in some ot the counties, the greatest part of the people are
their debtors, and in the existing scarcity of money were
the payment of those debts to be rigorously exacted they
would be exceedingly distressed. A demand of the debts,
accompanied by the slightest hints that in case of voting
for a certain candidate further time would be given, would
have a certain, perhaps, a more certain influence than a
direct proposal to buy their votes. Hence, a few persons in
the different counties combining would have it in their
power to influence the whole elections in the country, and,
instead of a representation of the people, we should have
a representation of the great landholders only, who, no
doubt, would serve their interests in preference to those of
the whole people. It may, therefore, be not improper for
you to consider whether the mode of election by ballot
should not be substituted for that now used, viva voce, as
the best way of guarding against that not improbable evil;
for, though it be true that the mode by ballot is liable to
much deception and intrigue, it is free from that kind of
influence I have mentioned. No measure can of itself be
simply good ; the circumstances of the case to which it is
to be applied determines its propriety."
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 219
The recommendation of Governor St. Clair was not car
ried out until after the change from Territorial to State
government.
Having disposed of the public business, the Governor
concluded his address with a vigorous reference to his
enemies.
" My term of office, and yours, gentlemen of the House
of Representatives, will soon expire. It is, indeed, very
uncertain whether I shall ever meet another Assembly in
the character I now hold; for, I well know that the vilest
calumnies and greatest falsehoods are insidiously circulated
among the people, with a view to prevent it. While I re
gret the baseness and malevolence of the authors, and well
know that the laws have put the means of correction fully
in my power, they have nothing to dread from me, but the
contempt they justly merit. The remorse of their own
consciences, will one day be punishment sufficient. Their
acts may, however, succeed. Be that as it may, of this I
am certain—that, be my successor who he may, he can
never have the interest of the people of this Territory
more truly at heart than I have had; nor labor more
assiduously for their good than I have done. I am not
conscious that any one act of my administration has been
influenced by any other motive than a sincere desire to pro
mote their welfare and happiness."
This was public notice that the Governor was inclined
to change his policy, and might no longer pass by in
silence those who reviled him. Heretofore, throughout a
long life passed in the public service, his command of tem
per had been exemplary. He had early schooled himself
in the principles so admirably expressed by John Quincy
Adams, in 180a, in his Diary: "In public affairs, it ap
pears to me, there is no quality more useful and im
portant than good humor, because it operates continually
to soften the asperities which are continually rising
in the collisions of adverse interests and opinions." But
now, when one's enemies, regardless of long public services
and white hairs, presume on this forbearance, may not one
doubt his own philosophy, and give as well as take blows?
220 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
To this personal allusion the Council, in their reply, re
sponded in this sympathetic manner:
"It is with real concern and indignation that we view
the malicious attempts which have heen made to asperse
the character of your Excellency; and though the provis
ions of the law might subject the authors to punishment,
yet we agree with you, that attempts so despicable and
wicked deserve no other notice than contempt. Believing
that your general conduct, as chief magistrate, has been
dictated by a pure desire to promote the interests and wel
fare of the people of this Territory, the Legislative Council
feel it a duty incumbent upon them, at this time, to express
their confidence in your administration, and their wishes
for its continuance."
The address of the House of Representatives was hardly
less complimentary :
"We regret, sir, that calumny and falsehood should be
resorted to in order to render your administration unpopu
lar among the good people of this Territory; but, we trust,
the services you have rendered heretofore in the cause of
liberty and your country, together with the manifest purity
of your intentions since you have been entrusted with the
dignified office you now fill, will be a sufficient shield to
guard you against the unprovoked attacks of the wicked
and malevolent."
The unfortunate difference of opinion as to where was
lodged the power for the formation of counties, which had
been the only one to disturb the harmony of the relations
between the Governor and the General Assembly at the
first session, again obtruded itself. He had given his rea
sons for refusing to approve of the counties they had formed,
which the reader of to-day will declare to bo forcible, and
should have been satisfactory then ; but they were vot
satisfactory to many members of the Legislature. They
insisted that, "after the Governor had laid out the country
into counties and townships, as he had already done under
the first grade of government, it was competent for them
to pass laws, altering, dividing, and multiplying them at
their pleasure, to be submitted to him for his approbation ; "
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 221
that " when the Territory had been divided into counties
by the Governor, his exclusive power was exhausted, and
any alterations thereafter required, were to be made by
the Legislature, with his assent.1 " This view was subse
quently sustained by Congress, but as that was in the midst
of a political contest, the action had no value in determin
ing which opinion was more nearly in keeping with the
letter and spirit of the Ordinance.
The Governor's opinion of the power of the Executive
under the clause of the Ordinance relating to this subject,
was succinctly stated in a communication to the General
Assembly in 1799: " It appears to me that the erecting new
counties is the proper business of the Executive. It is,
indeed, provided that the boundaries of counties may be
altered by the Legislature, but that is quite a different
thing from originally establishing them. They must exist
before they can be altered, and the provision is express that
the Governor shall proceed from time to time, as it may
become necessary, to lay them out. While I shall ever
most studiously avoid encroaching on any of the rights
of the Legislature, you will naturally expect, gentlemen,
that I will guard, with equal care, those of the Executive."
There was another reason for his conservatism in this
matter, which I have obtained a glimpse of in his papers:
The greed which characterized the transactions in land ac
tuated those who were speculators to seek to control the
establishment of county towns. They hoped thereby to in
crease the value of their lands, as the public improvements
in the way of buildings and roads, and superior school
advantages incidental to a county seat, would attract the
better class of settlers to such neighborhoods. Hence, the
hot strife over this business. A striking illustration was
afforded in the case of the county of Adams. Nathaniel
Massie and associates, who, at great hazard of life, had, in
1790, established a station on the north bank of the Ohio,
twelve miles above Maysville, sought to have their town,
1 Burnet's Notes, p. 321. Mr. Burnet, being a member of the Council,
his statement of the opinion of the Legislature is valuable.
222 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
known as Manchester, made the county seat of Adams
county. In the absence of the Governor, Secretary
Sargent, upon the petition of other inhabitants, appointed
commissioners, who reported in favor of locating it at Adamsville,
on Brush Creek. Great contention grew out of
this, and when the Governor returned, he found it neces
sary to take such- action as should bring peace to the
different communities. At great personal inconvenience,
he visited that section of country, which he examined
thoroughly, accompanied by two citizens of Manchester.
It was agreed by these that the most eligible place was at
the mouth of Brush Creek, where the town of Washington
was laid out, and the first Court was held in 1798. But
this action, intended for the interests of the greatest num
ber, incurred the opposition and enmity of the property
owners of Manchester. And Colonel Nathaniel Massie af
terwards got in his revenge, as the sequel will show.
The Governor was at last aroused, and he refused to be
bound hand and foot, as had been proposed by those who
had schemed to defeat or delay his re-appointment. As his
term of office expired early in December, advantage was to
be taken of the failure to appoint promptl}-, and Charles
"Willing Byrd, the Secretary, who was unfriendly to the
Governor, was to become acting Governor, and proceed to
carry out the views of the junto. But the Governor re
sponded with a coup d' etat, which completely surprised and
discomfited the intriguants. During the absence of Mr.
Byrd from the Territory, on the 2d of December, he in
formed the General Assembly, by written message, that on
Thursday, the 9th of the mouth, an end must be put to the
session of the Legislature, as on that day his term of office
would expire, and it was not a case provided for by law, in
which the place of the Governor could be supplied by the
Secretary.
Of course, this action was criticised, and it occasioned a
feeling of disquiet to some of the Governor's best friends.
However, soon after the Legislature was prorogued, Gover
nor St. Clair received his re-appointment from President
Adams. This re-nomination was singular in that the Ex
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 223
ecutive, in recommending the re-appointment, accompanied
his message to the Senate with the protests of those in the
Territory who opposed St. Clair's administration. The
friends of St. Clair were a good deal alarmed, bat need
lessly so, as, after a thorough discussion, and the vote was
taken, it was found that there were very few opposed to
confirmation. This pleasing intelligence was communi
cated to him by his friend, Senator Ross.
When the new Legislature, agreeably to the proclamamation
of the Governor, convened, on the 24th November,
1801, the friction between the House and the Executive was
increased. Although the county question was dropped, by
mutual consent, yet the Representatives sought a petit re
venge by withholding from the Governor printed copies of
the bills as they were introduced. This provoked a sharp
reprimand—well deserved, it must be confessed—which
heightened the feeling.
The business transacted this session was of an unitere3ting
character, but none the less importaut. The Gover
nor's views, expressed in an address to both branches of the
Legislature, assembled in the hall of the House on the first
day of the session, were carried out in the legislation ot the
session. He recommended that those citizens who were conscienciously
opposed to war be exempt from military duty,
and from fines provided for in the militia law—intended to
afford relief to the Quakers who were settling in the Teritory
in considerable numbers; that, as it was important
that articles sent to foreign markets should be of the best
quality, a law be past for the inspection of articles of ex
port; that the criminal laws be revised; that the delegate
in Congress be instructed to obtain such legislation as
would secure to the Territory the township of land prom
ised but not furnished by Judge Symmes for the support of
an academy, and make available the lands set apart for the
maintenance of schools and religion ; and that a more re
liable provision be made for a revenue for the support of
Government.
Acts were passed during this session to incorporate the
towns of Cincinnati, Chillicothe, and Detroit; to establish
V
224 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
a university in the town of Athens, on land granted by
Congress for that purpose; aid to change the seat of Gov
ernment from Chillicothe to Cincinnati.
An act was also passed declaring the assent of the Ter
ritory to an alteration in the Ordinance for the government
thereof, the object of which was to effect a change in the
boundaries of the three States first to be formed in the
Territory. This was a political move and caused a flutter
among the supporters of a State government. It received
an almost unanimous vote in the Council, but in the House
there was sharp opposition. The division was as follows:
Ayes—Cutler, Joncaire, Kimberly, Ludlow, McDougall,
Miller, Paine, Putnam, Reeder, Schieffelein, Smith and
White—12.
Nays—Darlington, Dunlavy, Langham, McCune, Massie,
Milligan, Morrow and "Worthington.—8.
Political excitement was now at fever heat, and personal
collisions were threatened daily. A mob, inspired by the
violence of the advocates of a State government, and aided
by citizens of Chillicothe, who were offended on account
of tho proposed removal of the seat of Government, took
possession of tho town for two nights, and threatened those
members of the Legislature who had been most outspoken
in opposition to the political views of the State party. They
forced the door of the house in which Mr. Schieffelein and
the Governor boarded, but fled before the former, who met
them in the hall with a brace of loaded pistols.1 Governor
St. Clair sent a special message to the Legislature on the
disgraceful proceedings, and wrote to the Secretary of State,
giving a circumstantial account of the affair.
The members of the Legislature who had voted against
the act providing for a change of boundaries, entered a for
mal protest against it, issued an appeal to tho people to aid
in obtaining the authority of Congress to erect a State gov
ernment within tho bounds assigned in the Ordinance to
the first State. These papers, with others of a confidential
nature, were placed in the hands of Thomas Worthington,
1 iSSC. Clair Correspondence. Also Burnet, p. 333.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 225
who was dispatched to Philadelphia to secure the muchdesired
legislation.1
The parties, who had been skirmishing through the press
and in pamphlets, were now brought face to face in a deadly
struggle. To enable the reader to understand the situation
more clearly, wc will go back a few months. Some of the
leadinsr citizens of Marietta had issued a calm address
against a change from the Territorial to a State govern
ment, which provoked a whole broadside from the pro-State
people. I find in a number of the Scioto Gazette, October,
1801, the most reasonable statement of that side of the
case, and include its points in my sketch. The writer
painted the future iu bright colors, but he set out to catch
the populace. It may be remarked that the Ordinance of
1787 was not held then by the pro-State party in such rev
erence as it is by the people of the North-west in the year
1881 :
The writer in the Scioto Gazette considered that the Ter
ritorial Government was ill-adapted to " the genius and
feelings of Americans;" it only being necessary to direct
attention to the Ordinance of Congress for the government
of the Territory, to convince one of "the utter impossi
bility of a government conducive to national happiness in
this enlightened day being administered under it, ' unless
by a person more than mortal.' This government, now
so oppressive, was prescribed by the United States, at a
timo when civil liberty was not so well understood as at
present, and when it could not be contemplated but for the
government of a few.
"It is added by the remonstrants [Marietta], ' that no
colony ought to wish to emerge from this State unless there
be danger that the paramount government will infringe its
rights, till it has made a comfortable provision for its wants,
till it has made considerable progress in its improvements,
till it has made its necessary arrangements for education,
till it has, in some measure, consolidated its social system;
1 Worthington Papers.
15
226 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
in a word, till it has not only become able to bear the
weight of its own independence, but also to preserve its
liberty by the force of its principles.' It is then asked,
'Is this our situation? AVhere are our improvements?
What is the state of our agriculture? Our commerce? Our
manufactories, etc., etc.?' To all of which I would answer,
that, in my opinion, a state government is the only proba
ble way to produce such a desirable situation. To talk
about our rights being infringed by the paramount govern
ment when we enjoy none, is like the moral to the fable
which concludes the Marietta- address, 'it is all sound, no
substance.' . . . We entered into the second grade of this
government without a cent in the public treasury and much
in debt; recourse was had to paper. This year's revenue
will redeem it all and furnish cash for the present year's ex
penses. Considerable progress in improvements and neces
sary arrangements for education are making, but can not,
in the nature of things, be perfected in our present situa
tion. It must be well known that men of wealth and in
dependence of sentiment are deterred from migrating to
the Territory because they can nut brook the idea of living
under a government like ours. But let a change take
place—let a government congenial to Americans be adopted,
and it will be like opening the floodgates to a mdi, wealth
will flow in upon us, improvements and agriculture will
adorn our lands ; the creeks and rivers emptying into the
Ohio will roll along to the Mississippi, conveying food to
thousands suffering from want; manufactories will spring up
in the wilderness; proper arrangements for education will
be perfected ; a new Athens, with other seminaries of learn
ing, will discover their towering steeples above the lofty
oaks, and soon send forth into the world youths ornamental
to human nature. Our prolific plains covered with herds,
our farms, loaded from the lap of plenty, gladdening their
owner's hearts, and our government, like the tree of lib
erty, extending its benign branches over all our citizens,
and, with a paternal care, sheltering and defending them
from tyranny and oppression, will cause the astonished
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 227
traveler to contemplate onr rising greatness with amaze
ment, and cry out, in the language of the venerable Frank
lin, 'Here dwells liberty; here's my country.'"
It was shown that the only pecuniary aid received from
the general government was the sum out of wbich were
paid the salaries of the Governor, Secretary, and Judges,
some §5,500; and that to pay the officials and miscellaneous
expenses of a State government, only about $15,440 per
annum, would have to be raised. To meet this, tbo Terri
torial tax on real property—fifty-five- cents on each hundred
acres of first-class, thirty-five cents on second-class, and
seventeen cents on third-class—was estimated to yield
$27,926.90 for the year 1801. In the Territorial officers and
the able citizens of Marietta, would bo found sufficient
talent to form a constitution and put in successful opera
tion a new government.
A "Hamilton Fanner" looked upon the scheme for a
State government with misgivings. He believed it was
only to furnish offices for the Chillicothe gentry —the am
bitious and the wealthy at the expense of the poor, and
that well enough should be let alone. There had been the
same pother in Kentucky, the same promise of advantages
to come. "But how did it turn out? Why, the gentle
men got the places they were looking for, to be sure, but
the people have been kept with their noses to the grind
stone ever since to make up the taxes, and are not able to
do it, and now they are coming in shoals every day to this
side of the river to avoid them. But where shall we go
to avoid ours, unless we turn Papists and go to the Span
iards, and that would be jumping out of the frying pan
into the fire. God knows we find the taxes heavy enough
as we are, and where is the money to come from?''
But why expect such plain and practical opinions to pre
vail against the cry that the liberties of the people were
endangered by the Territorial government, and that a phm
had been formed to perpetuate the Colonial system, with a
view of continuing the influence of a few individuals in the
councils of the General Government, and in the manage
228 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
ment of the Territory?1 The pro-State party had gone in
to win. In one respect alone, that of the multiplication of
officers and a more general participation in public affairs
under a State, they had an advantage that more than offset
all that could be 6aid on the other side.
Mr. Worthington met with few obstacles at Washington.
There had been a change of administration, and the new
party was in power under Thomas Jefferson. The influence
of the administration, for reasons that will appear here
after, was with Mr. Worthington and against a continuance
of Territorial government under a change of boundaries.
The provision of the Ordinance requiring a population of
sixty thousand before the Eastern District could be admitted
as a State was no obstacle to politicians who felt there was
a necessity for increasing the number of Republican States.
The census, which was taken during the previous year
showed a population of forty-five thousand three hundred
and sixty-five. Could not a State be formed as well with
forty-five as with sixty thousand ? But in this census were
included the inhabitants of Wayne county, who were
opposed to the scheme. These sturdy Federalists united
with those of Washington and Hamilton counties, might
make it difficult to give a Republican party-caste to the new
State; or might reject the law of Congress, and prevent
the formation of a State government. What should be
done ?
The managers at the National Capital were equal to the
emergency—cut off Wayne County. No sooner said than
done.
The act as passed contained two provisions, which the
opposition party thought humiliating, and as altering the
Ordinance which declared that the States formed from the
North-western Territory should be admitted into the Union
on equal terms with the original thirteen States. These
were: the reservation of the rii^ht of Congress to dispose
of the jurisdiction of the Territory lying east of the line
drawn cast and west through the southerly extreme of
1See Burnet, p. 341. Also files of Scioto Gazette for 1801-2, and St.
Clair Papers.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 229
Luke Michigan, when the Ordinance had declared it should
remain a part of the territory south of it until its inhabit
ants numbered sixty thousand ; and that lauds sold by Con
gress should be exempt from taxation for the term of five
years from and after the day of sale.
It was held that a wrong was done to the people living
within the district of Wayne, who desired to remain under
the government of the country south ; and to the people
of Ohio, by depriving them of all the benefits they would
have derived from the population and wealth of that rich
and extensive district.1 And in the second case, that " the
people of Ohio suffered an immense loss by giving up that
portion of their sovereignty which authorized the State to
extend her tax laws to every species of property within
her limits, without inquiring to whom it belonged, or by
whom it was claimed."2
The most important fact connected with this whole busi
ness is, that the only organized body representing the
people, and the people as a whole, had no part in it. The
scheme for making a new State had a purely political origin.
The contest in the election of the last President was so
desperately close, and the result in doubt so long, that it
was deemed essential to the future power and control of the
Republican party that new electoral votes should bo secured
by the admission of a new Stute before the next Presidential
election should occur. This strength could only be obtained
from the North-west. The Republican leaders of that day,
who were able, shrewd, and far-seeing, were not likely to
overlook a point having such a direct hearing on their oause.
One of the most active promoters of this scheme was
John Breckenridge, of Kentucky,3 Mr. Jefferson's faithful
1 Letter of Solomon Sibley.
2 Burnet, p. 339.
8"Near Lexington, 30 Aug. 1803.
**** ***#
' I feel much pride and pleasure in yr State since she lias become
a Republican State; not only because she will and ought to be our
natural friend, but because I had the honour and pleasure of contribut
ing my small mite to relieve her from a corrupt territorial pupilage,
230 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair,
friend, and in political management, the ablest of bis lieu
tenants.1 To Hon. Wm. B. Giles, of Virginia, was entrusted
important committee work, and nearly all of tbe members
of Congress of botb Virginia and Kentucky were active in
support of the movement. The Virginia colony in the
North-western Territory constituted the pioneer corps in
the work in hand, and their zeal never flagged. If objec
tion is made to their method, excuse is found in that prac
tice which has obtained in the polities of this country, of
charging opponents with being the enemies of society and
good government. The active leaders were Colonel Nathanial
Massie, Colonel Thomas Worthington, and Dr. Ed
ward TifKn. Colonel Massie was an older but not an abler
man than Colonel Worthington.2 He was not ambitious
of political preferment as was the younger man, but gave
his aid and counsel in advancing the cause espoused by the
and elevate her to the dignified station which her conduct since has
evinced she was justly entitled to. Considering the difficulties you
had to encounter with your political adversaries, you have succeeded
beyond all expectation; and you seem to move on in your arrange
ments with as much order and steadiness as if you had the experience
of a dozen years. It gives us much pleasure and cause of triumph
here; but to none more sincerely than to
" Your friend and very humble servant,
"John Bheceenridge."
From MS. among the 'ft'ortldngton Papers.
1 Mr. Breckenridge was consulted by Mr. Jefferson as to the most
advisable course to take to counteract the political policy shadowed
forth in the Alien and Sedition laws, and he carried with him to Ken
tucky the famous resolutions of 1798, which were adopted by the
Legislature of that State. He is understood to have been the author
of the nullifiying resolution of I7'J'.t, which took a more advanced step
than Mr. Jefferson in the resolutions of the preceding year.
2 " Mr. Worthington is a man of plausible, insinuating address, and
of indefatigable activity in the pursuit of his purpose. He has seen
something of the world, and, without much education of any other Bort,
has acquired a sort of polish of m inners, and a kind of worldly wisdom,
which may perhaps more properly be called cunning."—John Quhicy
Adams, in 1805. —Memoirs, p. 377. '•Governor Worthington was a man of vigorous intellect, great in
dustry and force of character, and he left a favorable impression when
he retired from public life." —MS. Letter of Hon. Thomas Ewing.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 231
other. They were all on confidential terms with the states
men of Virginia. Colonel Worthington and Dr. Tiffin
had hardly been in the Territory a year when they formed
the design OCT of driving Governor St. Clair out and affectinsro
a political revolution. This will appear more clearly as we
progress with our relation. They were assisted by William
Creighton and Samuel Finley, of Ros-i ; Mr. Darlington, of
Adams ; Judge Symmes, John Smith, Wm. Goforth, and
Francis Duulavey, of Hamilton, and Return J. Meigs, Jr.,
of Washington. Jeremiah Morrow and others joined later
but the first- named were the active spirits in Republican
management.
In order that nothing may be omitted calculated to throw
light on this interesting political movement, which embraced
in its designs the control of National affairs, I shall
quote at some length from manuscripts that have never
been published, found in part among the papers of Gov
ernor Thomas Worthingtoi*. But first, let us present so
much of the contemporary account of Judge Jacib Burnet,
who was a leader of the Federalist party, as bears on the
relations of Governor St. Clair to the politics and the con
tentions of parties in the Territory. It will be found to be
a calm and impartial statement :
" The Governor was unquestionably a man of superior
talents, of extensive information, and of great uprightness
of purpose, as well as suavity of manners. His general
course, though in the main correct, was, in some respects,
injurious to his own popularity; but it was the result of an
honest exercise of his judgment. He not only believed
that the power ho claimed belonged legitimately to the
executive, but was convinced that the manner in which he
exercised it was imposed on him as a duty by the Ordi
nance, and was calculated to advance the best interests of
the Territory. It was admitted that he placed too high an
estimate on the powers of his own mind, and on the gen
eral correctness of his judgment ; and, though modest and
unassuming in his ordinary intercourse with society, ho
very rarely yielded his opinion, when deliberately formed,
however erroneous it might be in the estimation of others.
232 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
" He hud been accustomed from infancy to mingle in the
circles of taste and refinement, and had acquired a polish
of manners, and a hsibitual respect for the feelings of others,
which might be cited as a specimen of genuine politeness.
It seemed to be his desire that persons of every grade
should feel at ease when in his company. And it may be
said, with great truth, that at the time he addressed the
first Territorial Legislature, in 1790, he possessed as great,
if not greater, share of the confidence and respect of the
people of the Territory than any other individual residing
in it.
" When the proposition to form a State government was
warmly agitated, and party spirit carried to unusual
lengths, he expressed himself freely in opposition to the
measure ; and, although he did not take an active part in
the struggle, yet the mere expression of his preference
identified him with the party opposed to the change; and
not only so, but the influential-station he occupied in the
community, and the probable result of his communications
to Congress on the subject, rendered him an opponent
greatly to be feared ; hence, the most strenuous efforts were
made to weaken his influence, at homo and abroad. To
accomplish that purpose, the foibles and faults of a long
life were collected, exaggerated, and proclaimed through
out the Territory. False constructions were put on the
most unexceptionable actions of his life. Ridicule as well
as falsehood, was employed against him to such an extent
that strangers to his true character might naturally con
clude that he possessed neither talent nor integrity. The
free use he had made of the veto power, and the collisions
which had occasionally taken place between him and the
Legislature, though their intercourse had generally been
harmonious and agreeable, were urged against him with
great effect.
" It was believed by every person who witnessed the
change of treatment received by the Governor from the
advocates of a State Constitution, before and after the agi
tation of that subject commenced, and who had noted the
circumstances attending it, that his opposition to their pro
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 233
ject wac the chief ground of their opposition to him ; and
that, if he had united with them on that question, the dif
ferences of opinion, and the occasional collisions which had
occurred during his administration, would have becu for
gotten, or remembered onl}- as unimportant errors in judg
ment, not affecting his wisdom, integrity, or patriotism.
Be that as it ma}7, one thing is very certain; that, as the
discussion of that project progressed, his supporters were
feist deserting him, and, before it closed, a majority of the
persons who had been his friends and admirers, were asso
ciated with his most active opponents, and seemed to have
forgotten that they had ever believed him to possess a
single virtue.
" The efforts made to injure his character, and weaken
his influence, were attributed by himself and friends to un
worthy motives. Some alleged that the hostility of his
opponents proceeded from a belief that it was necessary to
prostrato him to accomplish their own political views.
But, on a calm review of those party conflicts, after a lapse
of more than half a century, many circumstances, over
which the mantle of oblivion has been thrown, might be
uncovered, which would account for the conduct of the
leaders of both parties, without ascribing to them more of
self-interest or less of honesty of purpose than falls to the lot
of those who were not called consistent politicians. Some
part of the Governor's conduct was condemned by his best
friends, and was well calculated to excite a warmth of feel
ing in his opponents which might have led upright men be
yond the limits of moderation and even of justice.
"The Governor had many fast friends remaining in the
Territory, who received a full share of the abuse in which
he participated so largely, and who were not slack in their
efforts to sustain him ; but the most successful defense of
his chactater came from a distant and unexpected quarter.
Mr. Chavles Hammond, a young lawyer of Wheeling, then
just admitted to the bar of the Territory —unknown to
fame, and scarce!y heard of beyond the little circle in which
he moved, but whose talents, subsequently, raised him to
the highest elevation in his profession, and whose course of
234 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
life identified him with the history and polities of 01:io,
was induced to commence a series of numbers in the Scio!o
Gazelle, published at Chillicothe, in which he defended the
Governor with great ability.
"At the time he engaged in that defense, he had no per
sonal acquaintance with the Governor—had never been in
troduced to him, and knew him only as he did other dis
tinguished men, from his life, public conduct, and writings.
The journals of the day had given him a knowledge of his
military services in the French war and in the war of the
Revolution, and also of the manner in which the govern
ment of the Territory had been administered; from which
he had no doubt of the fact that he was a misrepresented,
persecuted man. The publication of that defense placed
his character and conduct in a fair point of light—refuted
the most serious charge alleged against him, and elevated
the youthful writer to a high stand in public estimation."1
Judge Burnet did not understand the opposition to the
Governor so clearly as he would if ho could have looked
in upon the Chillicothe committee on political manage
ment when in session, devising ways and means for the
overthrow of St. Clair. Even if the latter had acquiesced
in the movement for a State government, there could have
been no union on po'itical principle. St. Clair, like most
other Revolutionary soldiers closely associated with "Wash
ington, came to be an ardent Federalist. He was in cor
respondence with Hamilton, and on friendly terms with the
members of the Adams administration. We have seen
how heartily he approved of the address to the President
in 1799. He even entered the lists in public discussion, and
printed a pamphlet in defense of the administration after
the political blunder of the Alien and Sedition Laws, and
sent it to Mr. Adams, with his compliments. The latter
made a gracious acknowledgment. " I have read the
pamphlet," said he, "with great pleasure, as a masterly
refutation of its antagonist, in the style and manner of a
gentleman, and seasoned with no more than was useful and
agreeable of Attic salt. Happy am I to find such just
1Burnct's Rotes, pp. 378-381.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 235
sentiments countenanced, encouraged, and prevailing in the
Xorth-western Territory."1 Unfortunately, this pamphlet
has not been discovered among the St. Clair papers.
The political opinions of St. Clair were too well known
to the junto for them to suppose it possible for him to sup
port their movement. On the contrary, they recognized
him as the head of the opposition, and aimed all of their
bio «vs at him as the political giant to be first dispatched. All
of them had received favors of him, but with Massie and
Sunmes and Worthington and Finley he had come into
sharp contact iu the administration of the Territorial Gov
ernment.
The violence of party contentions in the States of Penn
sylvania and New York during this period, with which
readers of history are familiar, was equaled by that prevail
ing in theXorth-wesern Territory. On the Fourth of July,
1801, there were two notable celebrations in Hamilton
County. One, held at Columbia, had as presiding officers
William Goforth and Benjamin Stites. Governor St. Clair,
whi> had just returned from a tour to the upper counties,
was present by invitation. The following toast, offered
during his temporary absence, was received with applause :
" His Exc'y Gov. St. Clair—May his administration be as
agreeable to himself as his grey hairs are honorable, and
may it be his glory to have been instrumental in meta
morphosing the present anti-revolutional, heterogeneous
government of the Territory into that of a free State."
At the other, which was held on the Ohio, above Deer
Creek, and presided over by Judge John Cleves Symmes,
the toasts were all wildly Republican—extolling Jefferson,
Burr, Gallatin, Madison, Clinton and McKean to the skies.
There was no reference to Washington2 or to Adams. The
following toast will show the drift of sentiment:
1 Correspondence of John Adams.
2This silence was respectful compared with the proceedings at Xewton,
Bucks County, Pennsylvania, on the Fourth. John Ilanna pre
sided on that occasion, which was devoted to the celebration of the
"Glorious trinmph of Republicanism." The following was among the
toasts received with applause: "General George Washington—Maj
the tribute due to his memory now be forgotten."
236 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
" The Press and its Martyr, Duane ! —May some angel
in Jefferson's form knock off his fetters and unlock bis
prison."
This spirit entered into political affairs it. the Territory,
and dominated the movement in behalf of a State govern
ment.
As early as 1800, Worthington threatened to prefer charges
against St. Clair through the Legislature, but that body was
found to be less complacent than was supposed. James
Ross attempted to pour oil on the troubled waters. In a
letter to Colonel Worthington he expressed regret at the
feeling against the Governor, and added this (to Colonel W.)
encouraging prediction : "This ferment, and the measures
taken in consequence, will result in your having a new
State,"1 and then proceeded to show it would be a misfor
tune to the people.
When the Territory was divided in the year 1800, the
measure originated with these same Chillicothc managers.
The plan embraced the following objects: 1. The appoint
ment of William Henry Harrison as Governor of the In
diana Territory ; 2. The establishment of the permanent
seat of government for the Eastern District at Chillicothe;
and, 3. Such alterations in the form of the Territorial Gov
ernment as should vacate the oiHces. It was expected that
this would dispose of St. Clair, but the scheme met with
decided opposition in Congress, especially in the Senate,
where it went to a committee and was relieved of its special
features. Colonel Worthington was notified of this ad
verse action by Senator John Brown, of Kentucky, who
communicated to him the amendment. "You will proba
bly object to the provision which has been proposed for
continuing all things for the present in the Territory North
west of the Ohio as they now exist. The Committee of the
Senate were of the opinion that to adopt the principle of
the bill would vacate all commissions, executive and ju
dicial, civil and military, and also for all elections for the
Legislature, and all this to answer a particular object in this indireitwait,
which may be otherwise provided for in December." 1
1 MS. Wurlhinjton Papers.
Life «i*./ PttU:e Services of Arthur St. Clair. 237
On the fd May. following. Senator Brown wrote that, as
the two houses had disagreed on the hill. " a conference was
asked, and. this morning, the managers on the part of the
House of Representatives have receded froiu their dis
agreement, and the amendment of the Senate, heretofore
sent too. may be considered as passed. I congratulate
yon npon this event, winch, in my opinion, will give Chiliicothe
the permanent seat of government." 1
The political scheme being only partly successful, the
junto next resolved on preventing the re-appointment of
Governor St. Clair in December. They sent to the Presi
dent a remonstrance against the re-appointment, backed
by an account of the disagreement between the Executive
and the Legislature. Dr. Tiffin also added personal in
fluence, by appearing in "Washington and conferring with
prominent members of the Senate. This did not escape
the attention of St. Clair, as he was kept advised by Gen
eral AVilkinson, who was at the capital at the time seeking
promotion.1 Some of the friends of the Administration
suggested the appointment of Mr. Tracy, of Connecticut,
in place of St. Clair, but the President adhered to his
original purpose of making a re-appointment. The result
has been seen. Some of the Republicans who voted to
confirm the nomination were moved to explain their action
to Colonel "VTorthington : —
Senator Brown said : " Under all circumstances we could
not well do otherwise. The applications from the Territory
in his favor were numerous and very respectable, vor was it
probable, in case, of his rejection, that a successor would hare
been appointed who would have given greater satisfaction."3
General Stevens Thomson Mason thought that St. Clair ought not to have been re-appointed, but '• some
members who did not approve of the appointment were
induced to vote for it from an apprehension that, should
he be rejected, some person more obnoxious might be apMS.
Worthingtan Papers.
2 St. Clair Correspondence.
2 MS. Worlhington Papers.
i
238 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Oair.
pointed, such as Tracy, and that it icould only be exchang
ing an. old and feeble tyrant for one more active and icicked."1
" I am truly sorry," wrote the venerable General Rufus
Putnam to Colonel Worthington, " I am truly sorry that
there ever was or should be a petition presented to the
President of the United States, either against or in favor
of Governor St. Clair. It serves, in my opinion, no other
purpose but to create prejudice and a party spirit among
the people."2
Afterward, when the war on St. Clair assumed the most
violent phase, General Putnam took an active part in sus
taining the Governor by letter and petition.
Failing in this, there was hope ahead in the change of
administration. If the proper effort were made St. Clair
might be removed and the way made clear for a new Re
publican State. The elder Return Jonathan Meigs, a few
months before, had explained the necessities of the politi
cal situation in few words: "They [the Federalists] are
apprehensive that if we come into a State government be
fore the next election of President, the present adminis
tration may receive three votes from our then State."
"The Federalists will oppose it [an increase in the number
of States], because a multiplication of western or southern
States will multiply Republican Senators."
Although Colonel Worthington had gone to Washington
for the ostensible purpose of defeating a change in bound
aries, his real mission was to secure the removal of St.
Clair and the passage of an enabling act. The work was
pushed with great energy. It was necessary to create the
impression that the people of the Territory lived under a
despotism, and that there was no remedy for the evils
1 Itiiit. In contrast with General Mason's dreadful view of the char
acter of Mr. Tracy, it is well to read the opinion of John Quincy
Adams, as set down in his Memoirs in ISO;"> : " Mr. Tracy shows in all
his public conduct great experience and a thorough familiarity with
the order and course of legislative proceedings. His manner is pecu
liarly accommodating and conciliatory; his command of temper ex
emplary." But Mr. Adams was a friend, and not a political opponent,
and could not see the devil behind the smiling face.
2 .1/6'. Worthington Papers.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 239
alleged but a radical change of government. To that end
the public mind was inflamed by every art known to the
politician ; and this, again, was brought to bear upon the
administration and Congress. That staunch Republican,
Judge Meigs, had no patience with such talk, and never
gave it his countenance. If the Governor's negative could
be qualified he thought the Territorial system of government
could not be oppressive in any ivspect.1 " We are. and
have been for more than thirteen years under the oppressive
hand of tyranny," wildly exclaimed that other Republican
leader, John Smith.1 " We want to be free."8 "Aristo
crats," " Monarchists," were the terms usually applied to
the Governor's party.
On the 18th of January, 1802, both Dr. Tiffin and Col
onel Massie wrote to Colonel Worthington that petitions,
numerously signed, had been forwarded to him. February
1st, Dr. Tiffin wrote: "I have used every exertion to get
Colonel Massie to draw up and forward on his charges.
AVe appointed three different times to meet on that busi
ness." February 8th, he wrote again on the sime subject:
" We have this day been busy in drawing up charges to
forward to the Secretary of State against Governor St.
Clair. Colonel Massie, Mr. Creighton, and myself, meet
again at my house on Wednesday, and we shall send them
on by the next mail certainly. Colonel Massie will enclose
the proclamation for erecting the counties of Fairfield,
Clermont, and Belmont, agreeable to your request. McMil
lan is recalled. He will not, therefore, be seen in Wash
ington this year. The Governor is expected through here
daily on his way." 3 On the same day Colonel Massie for
warded the proclamations and promised the charges by
next mail. "Suffer me, my dear sir," he added, "to tell
you that I am highly gratified with your conduct, and if
you can remain a short time longer, will be assisted by all
our aid that we can give you."
1 MS. Worthington Papers.
2 Afterwards U. S. Senator, and implicated in Burr's conspiracy.
2il/iS'. Worthington Papers.
-,.
240 Life and Public Services of Arthur Si. Clair.
At last the charges were completed and forwarded under
cover of the following note :
" Chillicothe,12th Feb., 1802.—Dear Sir:—The enclosed
charges I have at length prepared, and have sent them to
the Secretary of State, referring him to you for the several
documents which you will be pleased to lay before him. I
am in hopes this will arrive in time to be of service. They,
perhaps, will want some explanation that I am sure it will
be in your power to give.
" I am, dear sir,
" Respectfully yr. ob't serv't, " Natu. Massie." l
It was evident that, at this time, it was not all plain sail
ing. On the 20th of February, Dr. Tiffin wrote to Colonel
Worthington that he was sorry to hear him express tbe
fear that a law would not pass authorizing a change in the
government. "I have used exertions on this occasion to
the utmost of my power." " I expect, ere this, you have re
ceived the charges against the Governor. I had much
trouble to got Colonel Massie to finish them."
The charges themselves will be found in full in the sec
ond volume of this work. Let it suffice to remark here
that when Governor St. Clair obtained a sight of them,
he answered them so effectually that President Jefferson
refused to take the action asked. There is reason to be
lieve that Hon. Wm. B. Giles, who was chairman of the
Congressional Committee before whom Colonel Worthing
ton presented these charges, and supported them in an ar
gument, advised the President against it. It is known that
Mr. Jefferson's friendship for St. Clair influenced him, and
that it was only after it was represented to him some
months later upon what seemed to be reliable authority,
that Governor St. Clair had spoken in public against dem
ocratic government, that he issued the order of removal.
Meanwhile, the efforts for an act authorizing a State Gov
ernment, proved successful in the month of April. Care
was taken, in the act, to exclude the Territorial Legislature
1 MS. Worthington Papers.
Life and Public Services of Arthur Si. Ctair. Ml
from all participation in the work of calling the Conven
tion. Congress assumed the responsibility for that, and,
distrustful of the people, even after severing the citizens
of Wayne couuty from the Territory, made no provision
for submitting the Constitution to the people.
It was still feared by the managers that in some way
Governor St. Clair would yet defeat the scheme for
a State,
and renewed efforts were made for his removal. The fool
ing is plainly expressed in the following letter from Judge
Symmes
:
" Washington City, June 24, 1802.
"Dear Sir1:
—Hero
I am yet, puzzling myself with expla
nation-; of my Miami business with the Attorney General,
who seems willing to hear much and say little, but
I have.
as yet, no cause of discouragement. " Governor St. Clair is also at Georgetown, but whether
it is hope or fear keeps him here so long,
I am not able to
say. Some days,
I understand, he is in high spirits, and on
some other days his mercury stands very low.
"The Attorney General mentioned his case to me the
other day, and, of his own accord, told me that ho believed
there would not be the greatest difficuly in the President's
mind, but that some good Republicans had suggested to tho
President that they thought it would, perhaps, bo as well to
let Governor St. Clair remain in office until our State is
formed, and the people choose
a Governor for themselves.
My delicacy forbids me to inquire who those good Republi
cans are, but
I boldly advised to the contrary
; and yot,
I
suspect those Republicans live in the Territory.
I begin to
be afraid that Republicans in the Territory do not agrco
well on the question of
a successor to Mr. St. Clair, and
one or more, for fear of not being well pleased with the
new, advise
a continuance of the old.
I am sorry for it, if
it be the case. We shall have much to dread if Republi
cans do not harmonize like clock-work. Jealousies ought
to be banished from Republicans, or we fail altogether.
I
could name an hundred in the Territory that
I will assent
1 MS. Letter to Colonel Thomas Worthington. I
16
242 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
to any one out of the number. When I see you, I will let
you know a little more on the subject than I care to write.
"I got a letter from Daniel Symmes, dated the 4th inst.
fIe tells me the parties nre at it pell-mell in Cincinnati, but
that the printers there do yot give the Republicans a fair
chance ; print ever}7 thing for Aristocrats, and only now and
then a piece for Democrats. We shall never have fair play
while Arthur and his Knights of the Round Table sit at the head,
and yet there are Republicans who recommend his continu
ance. Astonishing ! "
Summer and autumn passed away, and the convention to
form a constitution met, organized, and proceeded to its
work, and St. Clair was still discharging the functions of
Governor. Men of excellent character and ability had been
selected to make a constitution for the new state, more than
one fourth of whom were opposed to changing from a Ter
ritorial to a State Government. On the 3d of November,
officers1 having been elected, Governor St. Clair proposed
to address the convention, and was permitted to do so.
After the Governor had made his address, " which was
sensible and conciliatory," it was resolved that it was ex
pedient to form a Constitution and State government.2
The presence of Governor St. Clair within the bounda
ries of the Eastern District, now about to become a State,
was cause of continual disquiet to the Republican leaders.
Their sleep was disturbed with visions of Sir Arthur and
his knights continuing at the head, even after the District
should come to be the State of Ohio. Word went up from
Cincinnati to Chillicothe that the Federalists intended to
rally round him, and make him the first Governor of the
State.3 They were filled with despair. Dr. Edward Tiffin,
who had been promised the first honors by the Republicans,
began an active canvass, and in a few weeks wrote, in some
confidence, that he thought the situation favorable to their
cause.4 Governor St. Clair had refused the use of his name.
1 Edward Tiffin was elected President, mid Thomas Scott, Secretary.
1 Burned Notes, p. 352.
2 MS. Worthington Papers.
'Ibid.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 248
"While the matter was in doubt, St. Clair's enemies were
watchful, hoping for an opportunity to trip him up. They
lay in wait for him in public and in the social circle. Two
of these 1 had certified, the preceding December, that in a
coversation, at a private house, in Chillicothe, the Governor
had spoken contemptuously of the government, and said
it "would finally settle down into an Aristocracy, and
thence into a Monarchy." But even this was not sufficient
to convince Mr. Jefferson that a man who had risked his
life and spent a large fortune in helping to establish a
republic was a monarchist. Perhaps, he did not care
to give official countenance to political warfare of such
questionable propriety. Within a year, however, he took
notice of public utterances in antagonism to the principles
of the Republican party, or of opinions reported to him to
be opposed to his policy, and directed the removal to be
made on political grounds.2 This official action was in the
folio ving form :
1 .See Vol. II. Note to letter of George Tod, May 29, I8U2.
2The reader who has followed me thus far, and has seen what came
of the mob in Chillicothe in 1801, and of the charges which were drawn
up by Colonel Massie, and pressed upon the President and Congress
with infinite labor and zeal by Colonel Worthington, in the winter and
spring of 1S02, may profit by reading a communication made to the
Ohio Historical and Philosophical Society, in 1869, which shows the
value of "recollections" as material for history. I copy from the pro
ceedings of the Ohio Historical Society :
Robert Clarke read the following paper by A. H. Dunlevy, of Leba
non, Ohio:
"The removal of Governor Arthur St. Clair, in 1802, by President
Thomas Jefferson, from the Governorship of the North-western
Territory :
"This removal caused much talk at the time, and Mr. Jefferson suf
fered not a little abuse for an act which was generally supposed to proceed
from mere party proscription. General St. Clair had been appointed
by General Washington, was a man of great learning and respectable
talent, and, though he sadly failed in his military campaign in the
West, General Washington had the fullest confidence in his integrity
and civil ability. Why he was removed by Mr. Jefferson was, there
fore, never understood, unless it was on simply party prejudice.
"General St. Clair was a Federalist of the old school. Mr. Jeffer
son was a Republican—so-called in 1802—and Judge Jacob Burnet, in
his valuable ' Notes on the North-western Territory,' has expressed the
244 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
Department of State,
Washington, November 22, 1802.
Arthur St. Clair, Esq. :
Sir : —The President observing, in an address lately deopinion
that the removal of General St. Clair was a political partisan
movement, wholly uncalled for and unwarrantable. Whether this
removal was or was not justifiable, was a matter on which the people
of the North-western Territory then differed, and on which there is,
no doubt, still a great difference of opinion. But whether the removal
was right or wrong, the cause of it, and the real actors in it, and the
manner in which it wag brought about, should be known. It forms a
part of our early history, and with a view of correcting the common
error on this point, the facts were communicated to me by the late
Governor Jeremiah Morrow shortly before his death. They are sub
stantially these:
"In theiwinter of 1802-3, when the first Constitutional Convention
was in session in Chillicothe, there were some warm debates about the
point at whioh the northern line of the State should bo fixed, and quite
a disturbance having occurred in the streets of Chillicothe one night,
it was attributed by some to this quarrel about the northern boundary.
Under this impression, though it proved wholly erroneous, Governor
St. Clair called the morning after its occurrence, at the room occupied
by two members of the convention from Hamilton county, the late
Governor Morrow and Judge Francis Dunlevy, while they were in their
room and while the late Judge Luke Foster, also of Hamilton county,
was present. Governor St. Clair, referring to this tumult in the streets
the night before, and attributing it to the dispute about the northern
boundary, proceeded to express his entire want of confidence in our
democratic form of government, and declared in the most positive
language that we must have a stronger government, or anarchy would soon
be the consequence. In giving expression to these sentiments the
Governor used terms of the most violent abuse of all democratio in
stitutions.
" The three individuals present on this occasion were all the warm
est advocates of the democratic form of government, and fully believed,
while they lived, that, in the progress of Christianity, general educa
tion and consequent civilization, the democratio form of government
was destined to supersede all others, and hence they were highly in
dignant at Governor St. Clair's opinions, and believed him holding
these sentiments to be unfit for the Governorship of the vast country
included in the North-western Territory, then just beginning to be set
tled.
"Judge Dunlevy, at once reduced Governor St. Clair's expressions to
writing. They were signed by the three persons present, verified by
nffiduvit, and forwarded to President Jefferson.
"At the same time they recommended the appointment, as successor
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 245
livered by you to the convention held at Chillieothe, an in
temperance and indecorum of language toward the Legis
lature of the United States, and
a disorganizing spirit and
tendency of very evil example, and grossly violating the
of St. Clair, of William Henry Harrison, then•delegate of the Territory in
Congress, and so well-known since as the distinguished commander of
the North-western army in 1812-15, and finally elected President of the
United States in 1840. Governor St. Clair was immediately removed,
and General Harrison appointed his successor. But as Congress, about
that time, divided the North-western Territory into districts and sepa
rate Territories, General Harrison was assigned to the Territory of
Indiana, and acted as Governor thereof until his appointment as
Brigadier-General, in October, 1812, and placed at the head of the
North-western army.
"After the death of Judges Dunlevy and Foster, the survivor of the
three who had been active in the removal of General St. Clair, the late
Governor Jeremiah Morrow, called on me, as
I understood him, to
furnish me with the facts relating to this removal, in order that, after
his death,
I might explain
a transaction that had caused so much ex
citement at the time, and had given rise to
a relentless political
persecution of
a worthy and highly honored patriot.
" If the officers of the Historical Society of Ohio think this matter
worthy of their attention, they can use this communication as they think
proper. It might be well, in some way, to perpetuate the facts, and
thus correct the history of the event. Judge Burnet, in his work, has
devoted
a large space to remarks on this removal, and attributed it, as
he no doubt really believed, as he interpreted the riotous mob at Chil
lieothe, in 1801, to
a wanton and unjustifiable persecution of Governor
St. Clair. In all this, however,
I have been assured he was mistaken.
"Lebanon,
0
, May 25, 1869. A. H. Dunlevy.
It would be difficult to crowd into the same space
a greater number
of errors.
Alfred T. Goodman reviewed the paper of Mr. Dunlevy, and, in at
tempting to correct the errors made by that gentleman, himself com
mitted others. He erroneously attributed the cause pf the removal
to the charges drawn up by Colonel Massie and presented by Colonel
Worthington. He supposed Colonel W. to be the author of these.
Until recently, the papers which reveal all the facts have not been
obtainable, and are made public in this work for the first time. Mr.
Goodman was right in supporting the statement of Judge Burnet that
the removal of St. Clair was made on political grounds. It is cus
tomary to speak of the Ohio Constitutional Convention as having been
held in the winter of 1802-3. It concluded its labors November 29,
1802. The Chillieothe riot occurred in 1801, and did not originate in
any discussion relating to
a northern boundary.
j i]
246 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
rules of conduct enjoined by your public station, determines
that your commission of Governor of the North-western
Territory shall cease on the receipt of this notification.
I am, etc.,
James Madison.
Department of State,
Washington, November 22, 1802.
Sir:—Enclosed is a letter to Governor St. Clair, from a
copy of which also enclosed, you will find that his com
mission of Governor of the North-western Territory is to
cease on his receipt of the notification. It is only to be
added that no successor has yet been appointed, and, con
sequently, that the functions of the office devolve on you,
as Secretary of the said Territory.
I have the honor to be,
Very respectfully,
Tour most obedient and humble servant,
James Madison.
Charles W. Byrd, Esq., Chillicothe.
This official correspondence is a striking illustration of
the political madness of the time. That a gentleman of
the high character, the culture, and the experience of Mr.
Madison could consent to commit such an indignity as to
send a letter of removal under cover to a malignant, per
sonal enemy of the officer removed, is remarkable; and it
would be difficult to justify the act on the ground of official
duty. It would have been impossible for him to have
committed any other act that would have been regarded
by St. Clair as more offensive.
Thomas Jefferson, Republican, pronounced the address
delivered before the constitutional convention intemperate
in language, and as exhibiting a " disorganizing spirit."
Jacob Burnet, Federalist, who was present on the occasion,
declared it to be " sensible and conciliatory." In these
radically different opinions the philosophical reader will
find food for reflection.
We catch a glimpse of the brave St. Clair in the Re
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 247
publican correspondence of the period, and likewise the
bouyant spirits of the young leaders of the new party.
Let these excerpts suffice :
"William Crcighton to Thomas "Worthington, Chillicothe,
Dec. 27, 1802 :
"At present we talk of nothing but the Governor's
dismissal. He passed thro' this place on Sat. for Phila.
I bave just now read his answer to Mr. Madison—one of
tbe severest things I ever saw. We have a host of can
didates for the next Assembly. Your name appeared in
the list on Saturday last. The people yet continue calm,
and probably will during the present election." 1
January 31, 1803, Return J. Meigs, Jr., announces that
the Republicans swept the Federalist stronghold of Mari
etta by a large majority :
" The Federalists here have grown (if possible) more
bitter than ever. They fulminate their anathemas against
the administration with unprecedented malice. Such was
their obstinacy that (knowing they could not carry a
Federal governor) they would not vote for governor at
all, but threw in blank tickets." 2
1 JUS. Worthington Papers.
*Ibid.
248 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
CHAPTER X.
1803-1818.—Closing Days—Importance of the Wore op St. Clair in the
North-western Territory—A Wilderness Civilized and a People
made Prosperous and Happy—Return op the Veteran to Ligomer,
—Financial Affairs—The Government of the United States pleads
the Statute of Limitations, which Act, with the Aid of the Em
bargo Law, brings St. Claiu's Estate to Forced Sale, and reduces
the old Soldier and Family to Poverty —Depth of Party Prejudi
ces—St. Clair removes to Chestnut Ridge—Visited by Distin
guished Citizens—Interesting Relic of the Revolutionary Period
—Privations endured—Sympathy of New Yore Ladies—Ingrati
tude—The Last of Earth.
St. Claik's work in the North-western Territory was
finished, and he could look upon it with feelings of pride.
He had helped to secure from the old Continental Con
gress the great charter which secured freedom to a vast
empire, and made religion and education fundamental
principles in the constitutions of the five republics. He
had given to the Territory a code of laws better in all re
spects than any new country ever had before. He bad
seen that Justice tempered her decrees with mercy, and
had infused into all the departments of government a
spirit of benignity whose influence is still felt, and will
continue to be felt as long as these republies exist. Such
services, in the days of the Grecian and Roman world,
earned the wreaths of honor and gratitude, and, mayhap,
added wealth which insured case and comfort in old age.
But in the model republic, what?
St. Clair returned to Pennsylvania, and in time gathered
his family about him at Ligonier. His first efforts were
given to the task of putting his private affairs into shape,
and if possible securiug something to live upon from the
wreck of things. He was now an old man, and unfit to
embark in business of any kind, but as he had spent his
fortune in the service of the public, he was hopeful that
the representatives of the people would remunerate him
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 249
for his losses. Alas! lie knew little of the motives that
control men in place. The past to them is dead, and the
services which gray hairs recall may look to that past for
their compensation. They can add nothing to the living
present in which amhition is husy huilding monuments for
the future.
The story of St. Clair's financial troubles, and his efforts
to get justice—aye, even the shadow of justice—from the
Government, is a pitiful, and to the Government, a shame
ful one. I have dwelt on the brilliant services of a long
life with pleasure, and now that the evening has come
with its shadows, I would hasten to the end.
In the dark days of the Revolution, when it seemed as
if "Washington's army would melt away and leave him and
his officers as the sole force to confront the enemy, he ap
pealed to St. Clair to save to him the Pennsylvania line, the
flower of that army. St. Clair at once responded by sup
plying from his own private resources the funds necessary
to begin the recruiting, which was undertaken by Major
"William Butler. After the close of the war, he endeav
ored to get this refunded in a settlement of his accounts,
but, because of the non-adjustment of other accounts, the
Paymaster-General did not allow it, although conceding
the regularity of the claim. It was finally presented to
the Committee on Claims in Congress, who reported that
the money had been furnished and expended for the benefit
of the United States, but that it was barred by the Statute.
In the management of the Indian affairs in the Territory,
it became necessary as Superintendent, in order to carry
out the instructions of the Secretary of War, to become
responsible for supplies which exceeded in amount the
warrants furnished by Government, nine thousand dollars.
When St. Clair sent his account to the Treasury Depart
ment it was disallowed, because the accompanying vouchers
were not receipted. W~hen this omission was supplied, the
contractor required St. Clair to give his personal bond
for the payment of the vouchers. When again presented
to the Treasury Department for payment, the vouchers
could not be paid because there was no appropriation for
250 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
the payment of debts contracted under the confederation,
and before that could be secured, Mr. Hamilton went out
of office. St. Clair had not been anxious about the matter,
as Mr. Hamilton had promised that it should be attended
to, and that interest should be allowed on the claim. But
the new Secretary would do nothing in the matter, and, in
1796, all of the papers were destroyed by fire in the "War
Office. St. Clair finally applied to Congress, where, again,
payment was refused because of the Statute of Limitations !
The creditor got a judgment on the bond, and five thou
sand dollars were paid on the debt; but, in 1810, execution
was issued, at which time the debt had increased, with in
terest, to ten thousand dollars. At that unfavorable mo
ment, when the embargo had driven money out of the
country, St. Clair's property was forced to sale; and a
most valuable tract of land, on which there was a good
mill, a large and well finished dwelling-house, and all of
the necessary outhouses for a farm, and a furnace for
smelting iron, on which St. Clair had laid out about ten
thousand dollars (which was so valuable that at the time
it was rented for twenty-four hundred dollars per annum)—
all of this property, in value over fifty thousand dollars—
a large sum in tbose days—which would have made him
and bis family comfortable for the remaining years of his
life, was sacrificed to pay a debt which was in no proper
sense personal, but was due from tbe United States. It
went under the hammer for four thousand dollars ! All
of his other property went in the same way, and St. Clair,
wife, daughters, and orphan grandchildren were reduced to
poverty.
This home, from which they were now driven, was built
while St. Clair was Governor of the North-western Terri
tory—about 1799—and was named by him " The Hermit
age," in fond anticipation of the time when he should be
relieved of the cares of State. It was about two miles
north of Ligonier, on a tract of laud received by St. Clair
at the close of the Revolutionary "War. Alexander John
ston says the residence was considered handsome at the ti me.
It was handsomely painted and papered, and, besides ordi
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 251
nary apartments, had a suite of numbered rooms. The
situation was picturesque, a fine trout 6tream flowing in
front of the house through an expanse of meadow aud
woodland, with the blue outlines of the mountains visible
in the distance, to complete the landscape. Nothing re
mained of the old mansion, when last seen, except St. Clair's
own room, which was as he left it, but the painting over
the fire-place had been destroyed.
In referring, afterwards, to the executions which swept
away this beautiful home, and all his personal property,
St. Clair said : " They left me a few books of my classical
library," (including Horace, one would hope,) " and the
bust of Paul Jones, which he sent me from Europe, for
which I was very grateful."
"Was not this forbearance which spared the counterfeit
of an old friend, aud the means for forgetting the pangs of
huuger and the ingratitude of man sufficient to be grateful
for ? This was more than the Government did : it took
the best years of its subject's life, piled debt upon debt, and
then mocked his gray hairs. If, as Schiller truly says, it
is the most important concern of every State that justice
should prevail, and all men in the world should have their
own, how shall we describe the magnitude of the crime
that drove, empty-handed, from the door of the Capitol,
where Justice, it is supposed, ever has her seat, the man
who gave his all to his country?
One is reluctant to believe that party feeling had any
thing to do with this refusal to pay the just claim of a cred
itor, and, yet, the debates show that the members entertained
a feeling of political animosity that is inconceivable at the
present. Even as late as the winter of 1818, when the era
of " good feeling " yet prevailed, and an effort was made to
pay the principal of the debt due to St. Clair, there was
great acrimony displayed in the debates.1 Then the gallant
1 In further illustration of the bitterness of feeling entertained by
Republican politicians against the old Federalist, I give here the fol
lowing extract from the proceedings of the House, Feb. 5, 1818:
" Mr. Mercer then moved the following amendment, by way of pre
amble: 'Whereas, the Congress of the United States entertain a high
sense of the tried integrity, as well as of the civil and military virtues,
252 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
old patriot did not lack, eloquent orators to plead his cause
—his cause? the cause of honesty and right embraced in
the duty of government—for there were Henry Clay, of
Kentucky; Charles F. Mercer, of Virginia, and William
Henry Harrison, of Ohio, who stood forth in his behalf.
But the debt was not paid—never was.1 Finally, there was
wrung from that Congress a pension of sixty dollars per
month, but not a dollar of it ever reached St. Clair, for a
creditor seized upon it at the very door of the Treasury.
The sacrifice of his home drove St. Clair to the barren
lands of Chestnut Ridge, (about five miles west of Ligonier,)
where the few remaining years of his life were spent
in great privation.1 His favorite daughter, Mrs. Louisa
Kobb, shared his fortunes and cheered his remaining days.
The dwelling was a log house, situated by the side of the
old State road that passed from Bedford to Pittsburgh.
Hither many were attracted by the fame of the noble resi
dent, whose dignity of carriage, fire of spirit, and charm
of conversation were preserved in spite of his extreme age.
Two distinguished men have left their impressions of him
in these closing years.
The biographer of General Lewis Cass, referring to that
statesman's acquaintance with St. Clair, described him as
he was when contending with political opponents at the
beginning of the century :
"General St. Clair was a most interesting relic of the
of Arthur St. Clair, late President of the Congress, and Commanderin-Chief
of the Army of the United States, whom they learn, with
regret, has been reduced, by misfortune, to extreme poverty.' " This
motion was negatived—ayes, 61 ; noes, 81. —Annals of Congress.
Pennsylvania, after St. Clair was reduced in circumstances, settled
an annuity of three hundred dollars, and, in 1817, increased the amount
to six hundred.
1 In 1857—thirty-nine years after the death of St. Clair—Congress
appropriated a considerable sum for the benefit of his surviving heirs.
2During the last four years of his life, the family were frequently in
great want. Some patriotic ladies of New York, hearing of St. Clair's
necessities, sent him a remittance in money, and afterwards eight
hundred dollars in steamboat stock, which, however, proved to be
worthless. Nevertheless, the deed was a good one, and St. Clair ac
knowledged it in a graceful letter.
Life and Public Services of Arthur 61. Clair. 253
revolutionary period; tall, erect, though advanced in years,
well educated, gentlemanly, thoroughly acquainted with
the world, and abounding in anecdotes, descriptive of the
men and scenes he had encountered in his eventful career."
" Lewis Cass saw him for the last time some years before
his death, in a rude cabin, supported by selling supplies to
the wajroners who traveled the road, one of the most
striking instances of the mutations which chequer life."
Hon. Elisha Whittlesey saw him in 1815, as he and three
friends were journeying from Ohio to Connecticut on horse
back. " I proposed that we stop at his house and spend
the night. He had no grain for our horses, and after
spending an hour with him in the most agreeable and in
teresting conver.-ation respecting his early knowledge of
the North-western Territory, we took our leave of him with
the deepest regret.
"I never was in the presence of a man that caused me
to feel the same degree of esteem and veneration. He
wore a citizen's dress of black of the Revolution; his hair
clubbed and powdered. When we entered, he rose with
dignity, and received us most courteously. His dwelling
was a common double log-house of the Western country,
that a neighborhood would roll up in an afternoon. Chest
nut Ridge was bleak and barren. There lived the friend
and conridant of Washington, the ex-Governor of the
fairest portion of creation. It was in the neighborhood, if
not in view, of a large estate near Ligonier that he owned
at the commencement of the Revolution, and which, as I
have at all times understood, was sacrificed to promote the
success of the Revolution. Poverty did not cause him to
lose his self respect, and, were he now living, his personal
appearance would command universal admiration."
The journey is nearly ended. On one of the closing
days of August, 1818, the venerable patriot, in his eightyfourth
year, undertook to go to Youngstown, three miles
distant, for flour and other necessaries. He bade good-bye
to his Louisa and started off with his pony and wagon, in
good spirits. The authorities had changed the State road
so that it passed along the Loyal h anna Creek, several miles
254 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
north of the St. Clair residence, and the route to Youngstown
was rough and dangerous. Pony and wagon moved
safely along until within a mile of the village, when a wheel
falling into a rut, the wagon was upset, and the aged Gen
eral thrown with great force upon the rocky road. In the
course of the day he was discovered lying where he had
fallen, insensible, and the pony standing quietly at a short
distance, awaiting the command of his old master—faithful
to the last. Ho was carried tenderly back to the house, but
neither medical skill nor the affectionate care of loved ones
could restore him, and, on the thirty-first, Death came with
his* blessed message of peace forevermore.
On a neat sand- stone monument, erected by the Masonic
Society, iu the cemetery of Greensburg, is this inscription:
THE
Earthly Remains
OK
MAJOR-GENERAL ARTHUR ST. CLAIR
are deposited
Beneath this Humble Monument,
WHICH IS
Erected to Supply the Place
of a Nobler One
Due from His Country.
If this work, which unfolds the character and records the
deeds of Arthur St. Clair, shall enable the American peo
ple to form a just opinion of our hero's abilities and virtues
—notably his patriotism, his disinterestedness, his courage
and magnanimity, all of which he possessed in a greater
degree than almost any other of his day —then shall
that nobler monument have been supplied, and in the in
crease of gratitude and respect for the men who stood
faithfully by Washington in the dark days of the Revolu
tion, the divine law of compensation have found its fulfill
ment.
Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair. 255
Unobscured now by party passions and prejudices, the
mind, calmly reviewing the past, discerns the truth in every
event and the heroic in every character participating in the
struggle with King George, and in the work of establish
ing civil government upon the ruins of war. Justice is
dispensed at last. Ever noble shall appear the names of
the few faithful companions and friends of Washington.
What one deserves to stand above that of St. Clair? His
abilities, his genius, his unselfishness, and his loyalty en
titled him to share in the councils of his Chief. "As long
as the measures which conducted us safely through the
first most critical stages of the war shall be remembered
with approbation; as long as the enterprises of Trenton
and Princeton1 shall be regarded as the dawnings of that
bright day which afterward broke forth with such resplen
dent lustre;"8 as- long as self-sacrifice for country shall be
'Since the above sketch was put into the hands of the printer, I
hare received an interesting letter from Dr. W. A. Irvine, grandson
of General William Irvine, which confirms the opinion expressed in
the text, that General St. Clair suggested the brilliant movement on
the Delaware. I take the liberty of adding it to the notes already
made :
"Irvine, I 'a., Sept. 28, 1881.
"Dear Sir:—Your letter was laid aside and overlooked. 1 have no
other letters of St. Clair's than those you allude to. I have, however,
an incident connected with the General, which I will give you:
Thomas Leiper, of Philadelphia, a member of the < 'ity Troop which
served under Washington during the campaign of 1776, stated to my
father, Cullender Irvine, that St. Clair had not received the credit he
deserved—of having suggested to General Washington the crossing the
Delaware into New Jersey, which resulted so favorably to the Amer
ican cause, and to General Washington's fame. Mr. Leiper said, the
fact that St. Clair did suggest the movement was well known in camp.
Leiper was a man of high honor and veracity, and would not have
stated the fact if not true. At the same time he related the circum
stances, ho was commiserating St. Clair's misfortunes. It is not an
uncommon thing for the Commander-in-Chief to reap all the laurels
of his subordinates. True, he assumes all the responsibility of any
particular course of action. General Washington, as a military man,
had not, I think a suggestive mind, but he had the good sense to know
when to follow sound advice. Respectfully yours,
-' Wm. Henry Smith, Esy., Chicago, III. W. A. Irvine."
2Alexander Hamilton, whose language has a singular appropriateness
in this connection.
256 Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair.
esteemed the highest evidence of patriotism ; as long as
the wisdom that preserved an army to thwart the scheme
of the British Cabinet for the subjugation of the Eastern
Colonies is appreciated; as long as the republies formed
under the Ordinance of 1787 shall endure, so long shall
the name of Arthur St. Clair be held in grateful remem
brance by the American people.
THE ST. CLAIR PAPERS.
CORRESPONDENCE, ADDRESSES, ETC.
BOUNDARY TROUBLES BETWEEN PENNSYLVANIA AND
VIRGINIA—LORD DUNMORE'S INDIAN WAR.
1771—1775.
George Wilson1 to Arthur St. Clair.
My Dear Capt. —I am Sorey that the first Letter I ever under
took to Write you should Contain a Detail of a Grievance so Dis
agreeable tomc; Wars of any Cind are not agreable to aney Person
Posesed of ye proper feelings of Humanity, But more Especially
intestin Broyls.2 I no soouer Returned Home from Court'' than I
Found papers containing the Resolves, as they Called them, of ye
1The writer of this letter—George Wilson, generally known West of the
mountains, at that date, as Colonel Wilson —was one of the justices of Bed
ford county, Pennsylvania, " nominated and autherized by the Governor, for
the time being, by a commission under the broad seal of the Province." He
was not a man " learned in the law,'' but was, nevertheless, a prominent and
influential citizen. He was afterward, upon the erection of Westmoreland
county, appointed one of its trustees for the purpose of "fixing a place for
building a Court-House [and] a Coal [jail] for the said county." He was,
also, made one of its justices of the peace, having received his first appoint
ment February 27, 1773, and a second one the 11th of January, 1774. Col
onel Wilson, at one time, resided at Staunton, Virginia, and moved thence to
Pennsylvania. He succeeded Maekay as Colonel of the Eighth Pennsyl
vania Regiment. Died at Quibbletown, New Jersey, in the spring of 1777.
2 The "intestin Broyls" referred to are the boundary troubles between
Pennsylvania and Virginia, the history and progress of which will hereafter
more fully be shown.
2The first court of quarter sessions of the peace and juil delivery was
beld in Bedford, April 16, 1771, before William Proctor, Jr., Robert Cluggage,
Robert Hanna, William Lochry, William McConnell, and the author
of this letter—George Wilson. The Court had the high-sounding title of
"Justices of our Lord the King, to hear and determine divers felonies and
misdemeanors committed in Bedford county."
17 (257)
258 The St. Clair Papers.
inhabitants to ye Westward of ye Laurall hills,1 ware handing fast
abowt amongst ye people, in which amongst ye rest Was one that
they Were Resolved to appose Everey of Pens Laws as they Called
them, Except Felonious actions, at ye Risque of Life, & under the
peuelty of fiftey pounds, to be Recovourcd or Leveyed By them
selves off ye Estates of ye failure.' The first of them I found
Hardey anugh to offer it in publick, I emeditly ordred into Custotey,
on which a large number Ware asembled as Was Seposed to Resque
The Prisonar. I indavoured, By all ye Reason I was Capable of,
to Convince them of the ill Consequences that would of Conse
quence attend such a Rebellion, & Hapely Gained on the people to
Consent to Relinquish their Resolves & to Burn the Peper they had
Signed—When their Forman saw that the Arms of His Centrie,
that as hec said Hec had thrown himself into would not Resque
him By force, hce Catched up his Rifle, Which Was Well Lodcd,
Jumped out of Dors, & swore if aney man Cam nigh him bee
Would put What Was in his throo them; the Person that Had him
in Custody Called for asistance in ye Kings name, and in pirtickelaur
Comanded my self, I told him I was a Subject & was not fit to
Comand if not Willing to obey, on which I watched his eye untilI I
saw a Chance, Sprang in on him & Sezed the Rifle by ye Muzleand
held him, So as he Could not Shoot mec, untill more help Got in to
my asistance, on which I Disarmed him & Broke his Rifle to peeses.
I Res'd a Sore Bruze on one of my arms By a punch of ye Gun in
ye Struglc—Then put him under a Strong Guard, Told them the
Laws of their Contrie was stronger then the Hardiest Puffin amongst
them.
I found it neccsery on their Complyance& altering their Resolves,
and his promising to Give him self no more trouble in the affair, as
1The Laurel Hill is a mountainous range in the South-western part of
Pennsylvania. At the Yougliiogheny liiver going North, it becomes (_ hostnut
Kidge, and the range east of it receives the name of Laurel Hill. Col
onel Wilson's home was in what is now Fayette county.
2"I understand by Captain John Haden, the bearer of this, that there is
an agreement entered into by a number of the inhabitants of Monongahela
and Redstone. They have entered into a bond or article of agreement, to
join and keep off all officers of the law, under a penalty of fifty [pounds],
to be forfeited by the party refusing to join against all officers whatsoever."
—Extract from a Letter written at " Stewart's Crossings,'' in what was then
Bedford county, August 9, 1771. The explanation of this unusual determina
tion of the people of that section is, they were living in disputed territory —
claimed by both Virginia and Pennsylvania.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 2o9
hee found that the people Ware not as hartley as hoc Expected
them to be, to Kelece him on his promise of Good Behavour.
I am affraid Bum Who Have Been too much Countenanced By
their King & and ye province of Pensallvania are (Irate aceesoreys
to those factions, & God Knows where they May Eind. I have, in
my Little time in Life, taken the oath of Alegence to His Majestie
seven times, & allways Did it with ye Consent of my Whole
Heart, & am Determined in my proper place to Seport the Con
tents thereof to ye outmost of my power, as I look on it as my Duty
to Let those things be known to Government, & my acquaintance
at Philadelphia is none. I Expect you will Communieat those
things to them, that the Wisdom of Government may provide
Remedies in time, as there are numbers in the Lowr parts of ower
Settlement still increasing ye faction.
It givs mce Grate Pleasure that my nighbours are Determined
not to Joyn in the faction, & I Hope the Difiaut Majestrits in this
side ye Mountains will use their influence to Discorago it. I under
stand Grate thrates are made against mee in partikolaur if possible
to intimidate mee With fear, & allso against the Sherifs & Con
stables, & all Ministers of Justice, But I Hope the Laws, ye Bullworks
of ower nation, will be Seported in Spight of those Low Lifed
trifling Raskells.
Give my Complements to Mr. George Wood,1 Mr. Dohertey2 &
Mr. Frazor,3 and Except of myn to your Self.
Sprinohill Township, * Aug't 14th, 1771.
1George Woods, a resident of Bedford, was, lit that date, a Justice of the
Peace, bis commission bearing date March 11, 1771. He was re-appointed
February 27, 1773, and was a member of the Assembly for that year. He
served as Treasurer of his county in 1773-4.
2Bernard Dougherty, a prominent citizen of Bedford, was one of the
Justices of the Pence for Cumberland county when the territory included
nil of what was afterward the county of Bedford —his commission ns such
bearing date May 23, 1770. At the date of Mr. Wilson's letter, he wus one
of the Justices of his county—receiving his appointment March 11, 1771.
He was reappointed Febnay 27, 1773, and was a member of the Assembly
for the years 1774 and 1775.
2John Frazer left Fort Cumbeiland about the year 1758, and came to the
fort at Raystown, now Bedford. He erected the first house outside the
Blockade, and his son William was the first white child born outside the
fort. This was in 1759. At the date of Colonel Wilson's letter, the father
was a Justice of the. Peace for Bedford, his appointment dating March 11,
1771. He was re-commissioned February 27, 1773.
* This was one of the original townships of Bedford county; the others
were Ayr, Bedford, Cumberland, Banco, Dublin, Colerain, Brother's Val
2f,0 The St. Clair Papers.
Arthur St. Clair to JosErn Shippen, Jr.1
Bedford, Scpfr 24</t, 1771.
Sir:—I am favored with yours of the 22d of August inclosing
twelve Tavern Licenses; mine to you in April I find has miscarried.
I had a particular reason for wishing that letter safe, but I hope
soon to have the pleasure of seeing you in person.
I am sorry the papers I now enclose will contradict the favorable
account I have given of our county ; indeed I am apprehensive
there will be a great deal of trouble on our frontier. A ridiculous
story that Mr. Cressap2 has spread with much industry that this
Province did not extend beyond the Alleghany Mountain, but that all
to the westward of it was King's Land, has taken great hold of the
people, and together with Mr. Croghan's claims and surveys2 has put
ley, Fairfield, Mt. Pleasant, Hempfield, Pitt, Tyrone, Kosstrevor, Arm
strong, and Tullileaguc. Spring Hill took in a large part of what is now
Fayette county, the whole of Greene, and a portion of Washington.
1 "'Jd January, 1762. Memorandum. This day the Governor executed a
Commission appointing Mr. Joseph Shippen, Junior. Secretary and Clerk of
the Council, for the Province of Pennsylvania, etc."
"November the 1st, 176?•. Mr. Joseph Shippen. Junior, being continued
Provincial Secretary and Clerk of the Council, etc."
" Thursday, 17th October, 1771. The Governor informed the Board that
he continued Mr. Joseph Shippen, Jun'r, in the office of Provincial Secre
tary and Clerk i f the Council, etc.'' —Extracts /ram the Minutes o/ the (Pa.)
Provincial. Council.
'1 Micheal Cresap, a well-known citizen, at that time, of Old Town, Mary
land, which place was generally called " Cresap's," and is so markeJ on some
of the maps of that period. He was frequently west of the mountains. He
was a native of the State in which he lived. The use of his name (though
wrongfully) in the celebrated " appeal " of Logan, the Mingo chief, has made
it familiar to' every school-boy.
•George Croghan (pronounced Crohen) was a native of Ireland. He first
settled upon the Susquehanna, where as early as 1746, he was engaged in
the Indian trade. Ho afterward was agent for Pennsylvania among the In
dians upon the Ohio and tributaries. He erected n fort at the site of the
present Shirleysburg, Huntingdon county Pennsylvania. Early in the
French War, he was a captain ; but, in 17JI5, he threw up his commission,
and repaired to Sir William Johnson, who appointed him a deputy Indian
agent of the Pennsylvania and Ohio Indians. After Pontiae's War, he
lived at his settlement upon the east side of the Alleghany river, four miles
above Pittsburgh, where, as Sir William's deputy, he continued very effi
cient. Here Washington visited him on the 19th of October, 1770; and
here he still resided at date of this letter.
Croghan's "claims and surveys'' were all in the vicinity of Pittsburgh.
" Our friend, Mr. Croghan," said the Six Nations of Indians at a treaty held
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 261
numbers in a very doubtful situation, and will probably make it very
difficult to carry the laws into execution ; I wish it may not end
in a regulating scheme like what was lately in Carolina, certain it
will be impossible to collect the taxes in some parts of that coun
try. You will see by Col. AVilson's Letter 1 that he has been active
in suppressing a commotion in his neighborhood, and I hope you
will be so good to represent it to the Council2 in its proper light. There have lately been two Indians murdered near Fort Pitt;s the
person who committed it is now in our jail but denies the fact—
but he had owned it to several which with other circumstances I
hope will be sufficient to convict him. The Judges I doubt will not
be very fond of coming here to try him. I had the fellow sent to
Fort Pitt and confined there a few days, that the Indians might see
him and know that we were willing to do them justice, and went
up myself to his examination before them ; they seemed to be
pleased with it, but it is hard to tell what they really think.
I am very glad to hear of Mr. Per.n's' safe arrival in England in
so short a time, and hope to hear soon of the Governor's arrival
here.5
I beg my Compliments to Mrs. Shippen.
# * V & * » * t • *
at Fort Stanwix (Rome, in the State of New York), in 1768, " long ago i;ot
a deed for lands from lis, which may now be taken into Mr. Perm's land;"
and it was so taken. Notwithstanding this, .Mr. Croghun was, at the writing
of this letter, "making out patents to such persons as will buy of him"
These facts, with Crosap's report that Pennsylvania " did not extend beyond
the Alleghany Mountain," made it difficult, as the sequel shows, "to carry
the laws into execution," as St. Clair quaintly expresses it.
1 By this it will be seen that the previous letter—Wilson to St. Clair—was
forwarded to Shippen.
2The Provincial Council of Pennsylvania; of which body Mr. Shippen
was Clerk, as before noticed.
3 Pittsburgh. The fort, at this date, had a .small British garrison.
'John Penn. "A Proclamation. Whereas, The Honourable Thomas'
Penn, and Richard Penn, Esquires, true und absolute proprietaries and Gov
ernors in Chief of the Province of Pennsylvania, and Counties of New
Castle, Kent, and Sussex, on Delaware, have been pleased, by their com
mission, under their hands and stals, bearing date the twenty-fourth day of
August last [176'.)] to constitute and rc-appoint me to be their LieutenantGovernor
of the said Province and Counties. . . . John Penn."
5 Richard Penn was commissioned Lieutenant-Governor the 16th day July,
1771, by Thomas Penn and John Penn, which was approved by the King
August 16th following; but this fact was not known to St. Clair when his
letter was written ; hence his "hope to hear coon of the Governor's [John
Penn'sJ arrival here [that is, in Pennsylvania]."
262 The St. Clair Papers.
The recommendation I will send the first opportunity after I see
a few of the magistrates together.
Geo. Croghan to Arthur St. Clair.
June the 4th, 1772.
Dear Sir:—Your feaver of the 2d was Delivered me by Mr.
Eapy [Espy] & Mr. Galbreath & I observe the Contents, Mr. Collens
Did Write me Some Time ago, & I Inclose me ye Copy of a
Leter from Coll. Crisap to ye Inhabitance there, & Desier'd my
opinion thereon, in my answer I tould him that my Leters from
England Did menshon that the Western bounds of Pensylvania
Could Nott Come any Distance on this Side ye Hills, & that I made
No Doubt but Coll. Cresaps had been Well Inform'd before he wrote
that Lcter, & that is my own opinion, how farr itt may be Consistant
with the Good of Society for the King's Subjects to be under
the Regulation of Laws, Every one will agree, any Law is beter
than No Law, Butt when Laws are administered with two much
Severity wh have been two often Don fer three years past, it be
comes oppressife and unjust.
As I Conceave yr Leter and Infermation as an act of frendshipe,
& that I have the highest opinion of yr upright & Just Sence of
those maters, I Write you with freedom, & as we are on this topect,
pray why did Not the proprietors prevent all those Disputes, by ascertaing
thire bounds, I will Submitt itt to yr Self how farr itt is
Cousistaut with the prinseples of Justice, forr thire agents to open
an ofese to dispose of Lands so Curcomstanced as to admitt of Dis
pute, without proscribing themselves any Limites, when they must
well Remember that itts Nott a Great Number of Years Sence the
aSembly Refused to build a Trading house or fort beer,1 aLcdging
itt to be out of Mr. Penn's Grant, & after that ye Same aSembly
Refused Granting mony for the King's use, to aSist in the Reduc
tion of Fort Du quasne,2 & I Dont Know that Ever Mr. Penn Tuck
any meshurs. Sence that Time to ascertain his bounds, or make itt
Known to the publick, as to any Right that Pensylvania has to
1 "Refused to build a Trading house or fort boor; " that is, at the site of
the present city of Pittsburgh.
2 " Fort I)u quasne; " t. e., Fort Puquesne—the post, at what is now Pitts
burgh, built by the French, and nearly destroyed by them upon the arrival,
in 17')8, of General Forbes' army. Fort Pitt was afterward erected upon
the site.
Correspondence, Addresses, etc. 263
have a Duridiction over ye King's Subjects Till the Limits of the
province is Ascertain'd, as many of ye Subjects Comc from Veginea
& Maryland, & Settled under ye Ohio Company,1 those Calonya
has as Good pretensions as - Pcnsylvania, and as to Extending ye
Line by Dixon-' beyond ye End of Maryland,3 its to well know that
was Nott Don by authority to Determine anything:' Considering
all those Curcomstances, I may Venture to say you will be of opin
ion that if any objections be made to the Laws or Taxes itt will be
Intirly oweing to ye meshurs Taken by Pensylvania in Not acertaining
the True Limits of thire Durediction, and publishing itt to the
peple.
I Can Truly Say, that I have Neaver advised any person to use
a Shereffe or Civil officer of the province, all & such as have ask'd
my opinion on these maters which I aShure you is butt very few,
1The Ohio Company was organized in 1748. Its members resided in
Marylund and Virginia, with nn associate in London—fourteen persons in
all. Its object was the settling of wild lands west of the Alleghany moun
tains and trade with the Indians. Its members obtained a grant of five
hundred thousand acres of land from the Crown, to be chiefly taken on the
south side of the Ohio River, between the Monongahela and Kanawha. The
Revolution put an end to the existence of the company.
2In August, 1763, Charles Mason and Jeremiah Dixon, of London, Eng
land, were selected by Lord Baltimore and the Penus to complete the boun
dary line between the provinces of Maryland and Pennsylvania. They
were both eminent suryeyoi-6. The line they run (which extended further
westward than the northwest corner of Maryland) has received Iheir names
—Mason and Dixon's line; figuratively, the dividing line between the
northern an 1 southern States of the Union. The work of Mason and Dixon
began late in the year 1763, and ended in October, 17U7.
> Mr. Croghan means-by the words, l; beyond ye End of Maryland," to the
westward of the north-west corner of Maryland.
4That is, the running of the boundary line beyond the northwest corner
of Maryland was not done by autherity to determine any thing as between
I'eiwsyl va nia mid Virginia. This point by Mr. Croghan was, certainly, well
taken, as Virginia took no part in the running of the line. As the '- back
line" between Maryland and Virginia had not been determined, it was to the
interest of the former province that Mason and Dixon should continue west
beyond the mountains, lor the reason that just how far westward her territory
extended had not been settled. Her " back line" was, at that period n sub
ject of controversy between the provinces, depending upon the question of
the ligation of the 'first fountain of the Potomac;" as the line was defined
to be a meridian, extending Irom that point to the southern boundary line
of Pennsylvania. The province of Virginia claimed all the territory west
of the head of the south brunch, while Maryland insisted that her territory
extended as far west as the head of the north branch.
264 The St. Clair Papers.
I have advised them to Comply. But with Respect to Lands or
Taxes I wili give you my opinion, which is, that I think the peple
are fools if they Dout Keep thire mony till they are fully satisfy'd
that thire property is Shure, & that they are under the Durediction
of Pennsylvania, when I have the Pleshur of Seeing you we may
talk more on this Subject, & I will Shoe you the Copy of my Leter
to Mr. Tilghmau1 on those Subjects Last August, which you will
find fair & open, for tho' I know I am much blam'd by the agents
& other officers of Goverment, yet I aShure you I have very Litle
Connections or Intercourse with any of the Setlers in this Cuntry.
R. L. Hooper, Jr.,2 to Arthur St. Clair.
Fort Pitt, July 10th, 1772.
Dear Sir:—I think it will be best todelay doing any thing about
the lot we were talking of, till I have the pleasure of seeing you
again. Two days ago I was informed of the determined resolution
of a considerable number of people in the Redstone settlement,3 to
oppose the jurisdiction of your court in that part of the country,
till the western bounds of Pennsylvania are run, and I apprehend the
measure will be productive of bad consequences, tho' it may bc the
means of having that boundary sooner established than it other
wise would be. It does not become me to speak freely of this mat
ter, but you know my sentiments respecting the western bounds of
Pennsylvania, and I do assure you that no part of this deip laid i-cheme
was communicated to me till within these two days past, and I hope
you will believe that I have not been instrumental in promoting an af
fair, which, if carried into execution, will be productive of many bad
consequences. If you hear me censured by any worthy persons, on
the score of friendship, I request you will declare my sentiments,
but don't shew this letter, as you know how I am circumstanced. I
shall be glad to hear from you.
1James Tilghman, member of the Provincial Council of Pennsylvania.
2 Robert Lettis Hooper, Jr.; was, afterward, during the Revolution, a
Deputy Quartermaster-General.
3 The locality of what is now Brownsville and vicinity, in Fayctto county,
Pennsylvania.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 265
Arthur St. Clair to Joseph Shitten, Jr.
Bedford, My 18th, 1772.
Sir:—A day or two ago a petition in the name of the people liv
ing to the westward of the Laurel Hill, signed by two hundred and
twenty persons, was presented to our court. It charged the Gov
ernment and the officers of the court with great oppression and
injustice ; and prayed that directions might be given to the sher
iffs to serve no more process in that country, as they apprehended
it was not in Pennsylvania.
You will remember that I formerly acquainted you that asso
ciations were forming to oppose the jurisdiction of the Province.
I then thought they would have died away, but they appear now
to be coming to such a head as threatens very dangerous conse
quences ; something more than the settlement of the western
boundary is certainly aimed at, tho' that is the pretense held forth
to draw in the people. I wish it may not be a design to throw the
whole Province into confusion, and may not turn out a second Car
olina affair.
Col. Cresap appears openly to be a prime mover in this matter,
as you will see by the inclosed copy of his seditious letter, for
warded to me by Col. Wilson, and Mr. Croghan is strongly sus
pected of giving it much encouragement privately. Our sheriff
lately informed me he had seen a letter of his to the people about
Red Stone, reflecting much on the Government, full of scurrility
against all the officers, and advising them to treat sheriffs or con
stables in such maimer as the worst of men would deserve. I took
the liberty to write to him about it, aud remonstrated freely on the
consequences of such conduct. I inclose his answer to me,1 he
denies indeed the advising any act of violence, but in such a man
ner as seems to say acts of violence would be justifiable, and it is
certain that specious kind of stuff with which it is filled, is daily
dealt out to the people in great abundance, by the emissary of a
party, the members of which I don't know.
A gentleman who is unfortunately connected with them writes
me from Fort Pitt, the 11th inst., thus: "It does not become me
to speak freely of this matter, but you know my sentiments re
specting the western bounds of Pennsylvania, and I do assure you
that no part of this (lrop laid scheme was communicated to me till
within these two days past, and I hope you will believe that I have
JSee Croghan's letter to St. Clair, June 4, 1772, ante.
266 St. Clair Papers.
not been instrumental in promoting an affair which, if carried into
execution, will be productive of many bad consequences." 1 I can
not scud his letter as he writes to me in confidence, and requests
me not to shew it on account of his dependent situation.
The petition was presented by Mr. Brent, a gentleman from
Maryland, who practices in our county. He offered nothing in sup
port of it, but the uncertainty where Pennsylvania ends, and the
hardship it was on people to live under authority that was perhaps
usurped. He was answered by Mr. Wilson, and I assure you the
Proprietaries and the people are very much obliged to him. In a
very handsome speech of about an hour he opened the Constitution
of the Province, compared it with that of the neighboring Colo
nies, and pointed out where it excelled them. He explained to the
people the conduct of the Proprietaries in granting their lands ;
their great indulgence to settlers ; their singular lenity to their
tenants, and the peculiar mildness of the whole system of their
Government, and concluded with showing to them how fatal to
themselves the granting their request must prove. I think it was
lucky it was spoken so publicly, as many people from the doubt
ful part of the country were present, and seemed so pleased with
the conduct of the court in rejecting the petition.
If I might trouble you with a conjecture, I would say some peo
ple in Philadelphia are at the bottom of all these disturbances.
A certain ambitious set who would not scruple to wade to power
thro' the blood of their fellow citizens, have still a change of Gov
ernment in view ; by theiremissaries,they may embroil the Province,
whilst at the same time, by their influence on a certain party in
Assembly, the hands of Government may be so weakened, that
order can not soon be restored, but this is all conjecture, and I am
no politician ; but certain I am messengers and expresses pass and
repass betwixt Philadelphia and Fort Pitt too frequently for any pri
vate transaction to bear the expense.
It were to be wished that the boundary was fixed and so all pre
tense taken away ; but if there are no orders to that purpose, per
haps it might answer a good end to divide this county and fix the
county town at Fort Pitt. I believe it is beyond a doubt the
Province will extend beyond it, and the people would perhaps think
in this manner that the 1'roprietaries would not take that step with
out being absolutely certain.
I don't know if it was the intention of the Governor, the special
1See preceding letlcr, H. L. Hooper to St. Clair, July 11, 1772.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 267
commission of Oyer and Terminer, etc., should have extended fur
ther than for the trial of offenses that were then committed ; if it
was his intention it should extend farther, the gentlemen to whom
it was directed mistook, and by not adjourning have suffered it to
determine. We have a bill found for burglary which will oblige
the judges to come up, or give you the trouble of forwarding a
new commission.
I have other matters to write about, but I am fatigued with the
hurry of the court, which has been a busy one and will take a more
leisure opportunity; what I have wrote about I thought required to
be communicated immediately.
Arthur St. Clair to Joseph Shippen, Jr.
[No Date.] 1
Sir:—Since I last wrote to you I have made a little excursion
into the country of our rioters, and find that the moderation of our
court has very much disappointed them. It seems the design of
the petition I mentioned in my last was, to have provoked the
court to have committed the attorney, and some of the petitioners
who were present, which was to have served as declaration of war,
a considerable number having engaged immediately to proceed to
Bedford, break the jail, and set them at liberty. Luckily, fear or
shame got the better of the worthy attorney, (who is a grandson
by marriage of old Cressap,) and the privileges of the Province were
so clearly pointed out by Mr. Wilson, that I trust it has had a good
effect, a great many people having since paid their taxes that had
before refused; however, there is still a mmi bar of people, ahetted
chiefly by Mr. Croghan, that refuse to submit to the jurisdiction of
this Province, and very lately the sheriff has been very ill treated
by a number of them ; about twelve waylaid him, and came upon
him and one of his deputies stark naked, and threatened to put them
both to immediate death, but after much abuse they consented to
let them go that time, but swore in the most dreadful manner, that
if they ever returned to attempt to serve process, they would sacri
fice them or follow them to their own houses and put them to the
most cruel death. The sheriff knew several of them, particularly
Abraham Tee Harden and William Tee Garden, the Younger, who
1 Although this letter is without dnte, the context shows it to have been
written shortly after the one to Shippen, of July 18, 1772—the last one
given.
268 The St. Clair Papers.
are the ringleaders of this gang of villains, John Death, Andrew
Gudgell and Michal Cock ; they were all well armed with guns,
tomahawks, pistols and clubs ; and the sheriff is of opinion that
only for a pocket pistol which he produced he would certainly
have met with extreme ill usa^o if he had escaped with his life.
I have said these people are chiefly abetted by Mr. Croghan, and
I think I have reason to say s:i; for no longer ago than Friday last,
the collector and constable whom he had called to his assistance to
levy (Mr. Croghan's) his taxes, were drove off by his people, and
that Mr. Croghan himself threatened to put any or all of them td
death if they attempted to touch any of his effects, for that he was
not within the Province by thirty miles.
This will be handed you by William Lochry,1 Esqr., a magistrate
of this county, and treasurer. You will find him an intelligent
man, and can give you any further information about matters in
this part of the country. I suppose he will be desirous to wait upon
the Governor ; I will be obliged to you if you will please to intro
duce him ; however, he is a plain, honest man, and allowances must
be made for his address. I intend soon to have the pleasure of
seeing you, and am, etc.
Bernard Dougherty to Arthur St. Clair.
Bedford Augwst 18th, 1772.
Dr. Sir: —Having been in town yesterday I wrote you a few
hasty lines from thence. I remember to have mentioned that my
conduct with respect to the ensuing election should in some measure
be greatly dependent on the part you'd act I can (with great sin
cerity) assure you, that 'twas neither to pay you a compliment, nor
to make you believe I did s:i, that I have expressed this manner.
It is entirely in consideration of the duty I owed myself, and the
friendship I always possessed for you (friendship that did not con
sist in professions only, and wanted p iwer, not will, to make it
truly serviceable) that I deal thus candidly with you; Thomp
son,1 having sp:ikc to me, has resolved not to oppose him, and I
am (and have always been) resolved not to appear on the opposite
side you would be on; therefore if you offer yourself for assembly1
"William Lochry; was afterward, upon the erection of Westmoreland,
commissioned a ju.-tico of the peace for that county.
1 William Thempson. He was elected to the Assembly from Bedford
county in 1771, and reelec.ed in 1772.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 269
man, I will decline poling for the sheriff's office1 for the reasons
above mentioned. If I do pole, I am not at all sanguine in my ex
pectations, but so resolved as neither to be joyous nor displeased at
either gaining or losing the election. I request you will let me
know as soon as possible what part you will take, and assure you
that (notwithstanding the many representations that have been
made to me of your having injured me in the most tender part) I
shall not appear against your interest.
Best compliments to Mrs. St. Clair and love to your little
family.
jEneas Mackay to Arthur St. Clair.
Fittsburcih, 3rd March, 1773.
Dear Sir:—Your esteemed favor dated Philada., the 12th ulto.,
I have had the pleasure of receiving. Every body up this way are
well satisfied there is a county granted on this side of the hills,2
altho' I fiud every body else as well as myself, observes with infinite
concern, that the point in question is not attended with so favor
able circumstance as wo at this place had reason to expect, from the
nature of things. I can not but express my surprise at the point
determined in favor of the courts of law first sitting at Raima's. 3
Pray may I ask you the question, Where is the eouvcniency for
transacting business on these occasions, as there is neither houses,
tables, nor chairs? Certainly the people must sit at the roots of
trees and stumps and in case of rain the lawyers' books and papers
must be exposed to the weather, yet to no purpose, as they can not
presume to write. Consequently, nothing can be done but that of
revising fees, by which means every body (the lawyers, only, ex1
John Proctor was elected sheriff of Bedford county for 1771-2 ; Jumcs
Piper lor 1773-5.
* "Westmoreland county. It was taken from Bedford county by act of the
General Assembly of Pennsylvania, February 26, 1773. It lay west of the
Laurel Hill, and included the whole of tio south-west corner of Pennsyl
vania, as claimed by that Province; but a large portion was claimed by Vir
ginia as being in Augusta county ^Eneas Mackay, the writer of this letter
to St. Clair was ono of the sixteen justices appointed for the new county,
February 27, 1773. Mr. Mackay was reappointed January 11, 1771. llo
resided in Pittsburgh.
••'Ilanna's," so called because of its being the residence of Robert Ilannn,
the fir-it Better, was on the "old Forbes road,'' a little over thirty miles cast
of Pi tsburgh, and about three miles northeast of the present Greensburg,
county-town of "Westmoreland. It wus better known as Hannastown.
270 The St. Clair Papers.
ceptctl) going to or attending court, must be sufferers. No doubt but
Mr. Irwin l and a few more of his party, may find their interest in
this glaring stretch of partiality, yet we, at this place, in particular,
are too much interested to look over such proceeding in silence.
The whole inhabitants exclaim against the steps already taken to
the injury of the county yet in its infancy, and that too, before it
got its eyes or tongue to speak for itself.
My dear friend, if I had as much to say among the great as you,
I would declare it as my opinion that it would be absolutely neces
sary that the commissioners2 should be nominated in Philada., by
which means I think we could not fail to have the point in question
carried in our favor; whereas, should they be appointed up this
way, it is ten to one, if Joe Irwin and his associates will not prevail.
I am sorry for our disappointment in our hopes of being indulged
with a small garrison at this place, but in failure of that, nothing
could afford me greater satisfaction than the prospect of having you,
my friend, my neighbor at this place. This I will look for now
every day, and if you will send me word when you will set of from
Ligonier I will meet you half way and perhaps a Divine and another
friend to show you the way up here. As to Ross, he seldom speaks
as he thinks—for my part I therefore pay but little regard to his
declarations.
The peoplc of this place take great umbrage at the very thoughts
of being disappointed of the county town's not taking place here at
once, and are, to a man, willing to come to any measure or charges,
in order, if possible to frustrate the intrigues carried on by a certain
party. I think we can not exert ourselves too much on this occa
sion, and therefore would be very glad to receive your opinion of the
affiiir and your advice in regard to the most intelligible steps to be
pursued in the first setting off.
I would be exceeding glad how soon other affairs could admit of
your coming up here, by which means a plan might be concerted,
that in my opinion could scarcely fail of succeeding to our wish.
I daily inquire after the welfare of your family, and have the
pleasure of informing you that Mrs. St. Clair and the children are
well and in good health.
•Joseph Erwin, a resident of the Hanna settlement.
2 By "commissioners," Mr. Mnckay meant the trustees of Westmoreland
soon to be appointed —four in all.
Correspondence, Addresses, etc. Ill
Joseph Shippen, Jr., to Arthur St. Clair.
Philadelphia, 3rd August, 1773.
Dear Sir:—I received your favor of the 12th ujto. by Mr. Devx.
Smith,1 inclosing a letter from Mr. Mackay ; since which the Gov
ernor has been out of town, and I have not as yet had an oppor
tunity of acquainting him with the necessity there appears for
another magistrate at Pittsburgh, and with your recommendation of
Mr. D. Smith ; 1 but I shall take the first proper occasion of doing
it. We have just received news by the June packet that Mr.
John Peun is reappointed to the Government of this Province, which
will occasion the postponing of that and other business, except com
mon matters, of course, until the new Governor's arrival, as he is
expected so soon as the latter end of this month. He is to embark
at Plymouth the 25th of June, or 1st of July at fartherest, in a
large India ship for New York. A few days after the date of my
letter to you of the 15th May came to hand ycur recommendation
as Clerk of the Peace. The fees on the commission you paid, when
you received your other Commissions. The land I mentioned to
you in my last letter adjoins and lies below lands of Mathew
Kogers ; but I shall defer thoughts of disposing of it for the reasons
you give me. The reports you mention about blank warrants are
absolutely false, and the person who first propagated the story by
pretending he was possessed of a number of them, has confessed
before witnesses that he never had any, either with the Governor's
name or his seal ; tho' he had made some few ignorant people be
lieve so, by producing to them blank copies, such as the Surveyor
General fills up and directs to the deputies. I beg my compliments
to Mrs. St. Clair.
-cEneas Mackay to Arthur St. Clair.
Pittsburg, lltt January, 1774.
Dear Sir : —Here inclosed you will find a copy of Doctor Con
1 Devereux Smith, of Pittsburgh, was an early settler in the West, and a
prominent citizen. He was appointed one of the justices of the peace for
Westmoreland county, January 11, 1774.
27-1 T.tc St. Clair Papers.
olly's1 advertisement,2 put up at different parts of this village, the
6th instant, several copies of which were dispersed through the
country at the same time. This impudent piece will, I am much
afraid, be the means of creating great confusion and disturbance in
this county, unless proper steps will bc taken to check it in time.
The Doctor informs us that Lord Dunmore ' has made applicaiion
to General Haldiman for a Serjeant and twelve men, to be sent
immediately to this place, in order to support his authority.4
The captain has already appointed six or seven magistrates, among
whom are Major Smallman,6 John Campbell,6 and John Gibson ;'
1 John Conolly, a native of Lancaster county, Pennsylvania, was bred a
physician ; hence, his usual title of Doctor, He was a nephew of George
Croghan, and, according to the testimony of George Washington, " n very
sensible, intelligent man." Ho had traveled over a great deal of the Coun
try watered by the Ohio and its tributaries, and was well known west of
the mountains. It may lie here premised that he was selected by the Gov
ernor of Virginia to maintain possession of Fort Pitt, as well as Pitt'bur^h
and its dependencies, lor that Colony, and to put the militia und other Vir
ginia laws in force there, as against these of Pennsylvania.
2The Advertisement was as follows: "Whereas, his Excellency John,
Earl of Dunmore, Governor-in-Chief and Captain General of the Colony
and Dominion of Virginia, and Vice Admiral of the same, has been pleased
to nominate and appoint me Captain, Commandant of the Militia of Pitts
burgh and its Dependencies, with Instructions to assure His Majesty's Sub
jects settled on the Western Waters, that having the greatest Regard to
their Prosperity and Interest, and convinced from their repeated Memorials
of the grievances of which they complain, that he purposes moving to the
House of Burgesses the Necessity of erecting a new County, to include
Pittsburgh, for the redress of your Complaints, and to take every other Step
that may tend to afford you that Justice for which you Sollicit. In order to
facilitate this desirable Circumstance, I hereby require and command all Per
sons in the Dependency of Pittsburg, to assemble themselves there as a
Militia on the "Joth Instant, at which Time I shall communicate other Mat
ters for the promotion of public Utility. Given under my Hand, this 1st
day of January, 1774. John Conolly."
3 John Murray, 4th Karl of Dunmore, one of the representative peers of
Scotland, was, at this date, as explained in Conolly's Advertisement, Gov
ernor of Virginia.
' Major-General Frederick Haldiman was in command of the British army
in America, also Colonel of the 60th Foot. Fort Pitt had previously been
evacuated and dismantled.
'Thomas Smallman.
•Mr. Campbell was a resident of Pittsburgh, and, during the Revolution,
was captured by the Shawanese. This was in 1779.
7 Gibson was born in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, May 23, 1740. He received
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 273
the rest I have not heard their names yet. There is no doubt but
all the disaffected and vagabonds that before evaded law and jus
tice with so much art, will now flock in numbers to the captain's
standard, if not prevented in time, the consequence of which we
have just cause to dread. I hope to have the pleasure of seeing
you soon here. I think your presence is absolutely necessary at this
time.
P. S. I have been greatly concerned that it has been out of my
power to forward the inclosed to you sooner, owing to the badness
of the weather, and besides, was at a loss for a person whose
fidelity could be depended upon. Polly joins me in compliments
to Mrs. St. Clair and the children.
Since I wrote the above, Mr. Espy happened in company with
the new captain, to whom Espy said he thought the next court for
Westmoreland would be held at Pittsburg ; to which the captain
replied in a rage, damn him if he would not oppose it ; 1 from
which, and many other circumstances of the like kind, it appears
how determined he will be to carry his designs into execution.
It's thought here that 'tis all Colonel Croghan's intrigues.
Arthur St. Clair to Joseph SinppEn, Jr.
Ligonier, January 12th, 1774.
Sir:—Late last night I received from Pittsburgh the inclosed
copy of an advertisement, which I think of so dangerous a tend
ency that I have forwarded it by express, and to prevent all danger
of delay, have sent my own clerk with it, that if possible I may
receive the Governor's 5 directions before the 25th.
• classical education. He was an excellent scholar at the age of eighteen,
when he entered the service. His first campaign was under General Forbes,
in the expedition of the latter to the Ohio in 1758. He then settled at Pitts
burgh as a trader. Upon the breaking out of the war with the Indians, in
1763, Gibson whs taken prisoner by the savages, but was given up in 1764
to Col. Bouquet, when he resumed his occupation of trading with the dif
ferent tribes beyond the Ohio, and was thus employed at the commencement
of 1774.
1That is, he (Conolly) would oppose the sitting of the Westmoreland
Court at Pittsburgh.
1On the 3th of June, 1773, Richard Penn, "Lieutenant, etc,'' was suc
ceeded by John Penn as " Deputy or Lieutenant-Governor of the Province
"f Pennsylvania." by the "Royal Allowance and Approbation" of the
King. He was inaugurated in Philadelphia, with much ceremony, August
la
274 The St. Clair Papers.
Should it so happen that Mr. Hoofnagle l can not return in time,
but which he will do if it be possible, what occurs to me is previous
to the day appointed for the Assembly 5 to demand such security of
Mr. Conolly for his good behavior as he will not be able to pro
cure, and in consequence to have him committed ; to direct the sher
iff3 to have a sufficient number of such as can be depended upon,
to protect the jail, should a rescue be attempted, which perhaps
may be the case, and to write to the magistrates,1 some to attend at
the jail, and some at Pittsburgh.
I have written to Mr. Wilson for his counsel on this thought, and
to know if there is any other legal way of securing Mr. Conolly,
and to desire he would suggest any other method to preserve the
peace of the county, which will certainly be greatly endangered.
I need not press you to dispatch Mr. Hoofnagle ; the shortness of
the time is too evident ; suffer me, however, to hint that this ser
vice is foreign to his engagements with me.
Arthur St. Clair to Joseph Shtppen, Jr.
Ligonier, January 15, 1774.
Sir : —This will be delivered by Mr. Hanna, one of the trustees
for Westmoreland county.5 To some management of his I believe,
the opposition to fixing the county town at Pittsburgh is chiefly
owing-—it is his interest it should continue where the law has fixed
the courts, pro tempore ; he lives there ; used to keep public house
30th. He remained in office until after the commencement of the Revolu
tion.
1Michael Huffnagle was, subsequently, judge of the Common Pleas of
Westmoreland county, and held several other offices. He was somewhat of a
distinguishea character west of the mountains during the Revolution. He
was, it will be noticed, at the date of this letter, St. Clair's clerk.
'1 Uy " the Assembly," St. Clair has reference to the one proposed for the
25th of that month, by Conolly, and his advertisement.
2John Proctor.
'The magistrates of Westmoreland county, at that date, were William
Crawford, Arthur St. Clair, Thomas Gist, Alexander McKee, Robert Hanna,
William Lochry, George Wilson, William Thompson, ./Eneas Mackay, Jo
seph Spear, Alexander McLean, James Cavet, William Braeken, James
Pollock, Samuel Sloan, and Michael Rugh.
6 At the date of this letter, Robert Hanna was not only one of the trus
tees of Westmoreland county, but, also, one of its justices of the peace—
having been commissioned to the last-mentioned office February 27, 1773
The other trustees were Joseph Erwin, Samuel Sloan, and George Wilson.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 275
there; and has now, on that expectation, rented his house at an
extravagant price. Erwin, another trustee, adjoins, and is also
public house keeper. A third trustee 1 lives in the neighborhood,
which always make a majority for continuing the courts at the pres
ent place. A passage in the law for erecting the county is, that the
courts shall be held in the foregoing place (the house of Robert
Hanna) till a court house and jail are built ; this puts it in their
power to continue there as long as they please—for a little manage
ment might prevent a court house and jail being built this twenty
years. This is explanation of a petition to the House, which was
sent down lately; it was begun and ended on the Friday of the
court week. An unexpected opportunity to Philadelphia offered
that day, by reason of which it is to the House only, and signed
but by a few people, but the few that have signed it are the princi
pal people ; and who acted more from their feelings for multitudes,
whom they saw suffering than from their own inconvenience. A
like petition to the Governor will soon be forwarded, which will be
countenanced, by, I am certain, five-sixths of the whole people.
Mr. Hoofnagle I hope will be almost home before you receive
this. I beg you will excuse inaccuracies as I wrote in the greatest
•Samuel Sloan. George Wilson, it will be remembered, resided in Spring
Hill township, in what is now Fayette county. On the 8th of October, pre
ceding the date of this letter, he wrote the Governor of Pennsylvania, John
Penn, as follows :
"Honoured Sir : —After Congratulating you on your Safe Arrivall to ye
Seate of your Govourment, I Beg Leave to acquaint you that Since ye Constetution
of ye New County of Westmoreland, We Who Ware appointed
Trustees Have Met twice in order to consult on Sum things Relative to ower
Duteys in that trust. I apprehend that it Was ye Sence of His Honour ye
Govournour and ye Asembley at ye time, that yo Courts Ware appointed to
Hold at ye Hows of Mr. Kobnrt Hannow, that they Should Hold there untill
the present unsettled State of ye Westrin Boundrey might be more per
fectly asertained, for Which Reason I could not Joyn With ye other trus
tees in Making a Report to your Honour, Which Report I presume is com
to Hand Beforo now. It Was My Advice that a Letter first should be sent
to your Honour to Know your Sence of ye mutter Whether it would bo ad
visable (as there is a Goalo and a Sort of a Courthows in Which yo Coun
ties Busness may be Don in) To postpon the Fixing aney perticular place
for a Countey Seat for Sum time Longer untill at Least, We had your ad
vice in ye matter. But As They Rather chose to Make a Report, I Did not
Thinke proper to Joyn in that. I Gladly Would Do My Dutey for ye Best
& Would be Sorey to Mistake it. I Would be Extremely Glad to know your
Sence of ye Matter & am Sorrey to acquaint you of ye unhapey diferances
occasioned By Sum ill minded persons, As they Say By Reason of ye un
settled State of ye Westerin Bounderie. I am, etc."
276 The St. Clair Papers.
hurry—Mr. Hanna holding his horse whilst I write. I will see you
early in the spring.
Governor Penn to Arthur St. Clatr.
Philadelphia, 20<A January, 1774.
Sir :—I am extremely obliged to you for your great attention to
the interest of this Government in transmitting, with so much dis
patch and care, the intelligence contained in your letter of the 12th
of this month, to Mr. Secretary Shippen, and the papers it in
closed.
I can not help being greatly surprised to find that Dr. Conolly
hath published au advertisement, asserting his appointment by
Lord Dunmore, Governor of Virginia, to act as Captain Commandant
of the Militia of Pittsburgh, and its dependencies ; and that in
consequence of such appointment, he had taken upon him to as
semble the people as a militia, under the Government of Virginia,
and to appoint magistrates of Pittsburgh.
As his Lordship must certainly know that the jurisdiction of
Pennsylvania hath been exercised at Fort Pitt, and in the neigh
borhood of it, for several years past, and hath not given me the
least intimation of any design to extend his Government there, I
am much inclined to conclude that Mr. Conolly hath, on this oc
casion, assumed powers which Lord Dunmore never gave him.
However, I shall, without loss of time, dispatch a messenger to
Williamsburg, with a letter to his Lordship,1 in order to obtain an
explanation of this very strange affair. In the mean time I would,
by all means, have you and the other magistrates of your county
assert the right of Pennsylvania, and protect the people in every
part within its known limits, as Fort Pitt3 most certainly is.
The meeting of a number of people under arms, in consequence
of Mr. Conolly's summons, will undoubtedly be an act of a crimi
nal nature, for which they may bo indicted and punished, and
comes properly under the idea of an unlawful assembly, with an
intention to disturb the public peace ; you will, therefore, do right
in apprehending him and some of his principal partisans, after such
meeting, and holding them to reasonable security for their appear
ance at the next sessions, to answer for their conduct.
I expect the magistrates on this occasion, will do their duty with
1 See the letter following—Penn to Dunmore, dated January 31, 1774.
* That Is, Pittsburgh. The two names were used by the people indiscrim
inately.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 277
Spirit, in which they will be supported by the Government ; and if
any of Conolly's pretended magistrates shall presume to proceed ju
dicially within the known limits of the Province of Pennsylvania,
I desire that proper actions may be commenced by the party ag
grieved, not only against the officer who executes the process, but
the magistrate also under whose authority he shall act; and you
may be assured that such actions shall be prosecuted and supported
at the expense of this Government.
In order to strengthen the hands of the magistracy on this oc
casion, in the course of their duty, I send you a copy of the riot
Act made by the present Assembly, which has received my assent,
and will pass the seals before this comes to your hands, and ex
tends to all parts of the Province. But, as the execution of it may
be attended with the most serious consequences, the proceedings un
der it should be conducted with the utmost caution, and great care
must be taken to extend it only in such places as are certainly
within the limits of the Province, of which you can make the best
judgment of any body, by the share you had in running a line to
ascertain the situation of Fort Pitt.1
I have made an addition to the Bench of your county, and send
the commission for the new magistrates by this opportunity.2
I would have you get possession, if you can, of some of Conolly's
original advertisements.
Governor Penx to Lord Dunmore.
Philadelphia, 31st January 1774.
My Lord:—A few days ago I received by express, from the west
ern frontiers of this Province, the inclosed copy of an advertise
ment, lately set up at Pittsburgh and divers other places in that
quarter of the country, by one John Conolly, who has taken upon
him as Captain Commandant of the militia at Pittsburgh, and its de
pendencies, by virtue of your Lordship's commission as he says, to
command the people to meet him there as a militia on the 25th in
stant, and to exercise jurisdiction over them, as settlers under
your Government within the Dominion of Virginia.
1Concerning the efforts put forth previous to this date to determine the
southern and western limits of south-western Pennsylvania, mention is
hereafter made.
1 The additional magistrates commissioned were, Van Swearingen, Thomas
Scott, Alexander Ross, John Carnaehan, Andrew McKarlnnu, Oliver Miller,
Devereux Smith, and John Shepherd.
278 The St. Clair Papers.
A step so sudden and unexpected could not but be matter of
great surprise to me, as well as very alarming to the inhabitants
of those parts, who have taken up, improved, and hitherto peace
ably enjoyed their lands under grants from the Proprietaries of
this Province.
Being, however, too well acquainted with your Lordship's char
acter to admit the least idea that you would countenance a measure
injurious to the rights of the Proprietaries of Pennsylvania or
which might have a tendency to raise disturbances within their
Province, I flatter myself that the laying before you a short state
ment of the limits of this Province, so far as regards the present
question and acquainting you with the steps which have been taken
to ascertain its western extent, and the situation of Pittsburgh, will
be abundantly sufficient to satisfy you that that place is, beyond
all doubt, within this Province.
The western extent of the Province of Pennsylvania, by the
Royal Grant, is five degrees of longitude from the river Dela
ware, which is its eastern boundary.
In the year 1768, an east and west line was run from Dela
ware, at the mouth of Cristiana Creek, to the crossing of Dunkard
Creek, a branch of the Monongahela, by Messieurs. Dixon and
Mason, two surveyors of distinction, who were sent over from
England to run the division line between Maryland and Pennsyl
vania. These artists fixed the latitude and extent of that line
with the utmost exactness and precision, to the satisfaction of the
Commissioners on both sides.1 From the 233d mile stone on this
line, a north line hath been since carefully run and measured to
the Ohio, and from thence up to Fort Pitt ; * the several courses of
the river have been taken with all possible care. From the line
of Dixon and Mason to a known point in the south line of the City
of Philadelphia,thetrue course and distance hath been discovered by
1The exact distance run by Mason and Dixon from the Delaware River
was 244 miles. 38 chains, and 36 links. This look them across the Monon
gahela to the second crossing of Dunkard Creek, a little west of what isnow
Mount Morris, in Greene county, Pennsylvania. At this point, they struck
" the Warrior brunch of the old Catawba war path ; " that is, the eastern edge
of lands claimed by the Six Nations, when their labors were given up. The
extreme western limit of the line run by them was about twenty-one and
one-half miles east of the south-west corner of Pennsylvania, as established
in 1784, by astronomical observations.
2 It was in the running of these temporary lines that St. Clair toik part,
as mentioned by Governor Penn, in his letter of the 20th of January,
1774, ante.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 279
actual survey, as also from the point aforesaid, to that part of the
river Delaware which is in the same latitude as Fort Pitt; and
from these several data, the most exact calculations have been
made by Dr. Smith, Provost of our College, Mr. Rittenhouse, and
our Surveyor General, in order to ascertain the difference of longi
tude between Delaware and Pittsburgh, who all agree that the latter
is near six miles eastward of the western extent of the Province.
The better to illustrate this matter, and enable your Lordship to
form a judgment of the accuracy with which the work has been
done, and the calculations made, I have inclosed a map or draught
of the several lines above mentioned, with explanatory notes, as
delivered by them to me. Should your Lordship, however, con
trary to my expectation, still entertain any doubt respecting this
matter, I hope you will at least think it reasonable for avoiding
those mischiefs which must naturally arise in cases of clashing and
disputed jurisdiction, to defer the appointing of officers, and ex
ercising government in that neighborhood, and suffer the people to
remain in the quiet and undisputed possession of the lands they
hold under this Province, till some temporary line of jurisdiction
can be agreed on by commissioners, to be appointed by both Gov
ernments, to confer on this subject, or until the affair can be settled
by His Majesty in Council, before whom a petition, exhibited by
the Proprietaries of Pennsylvania, for the settlement of their west
ern as well as other boundaries is now depending.
I shall hope to recieve your Lordship's sentiments of this matter
by the first opportunity.
ARTnUR ST. CLAIR TO GOVERNOR FENN.
Ligonier, February 2, 1774.
I am honored with your letter of the 20th January, which
reached me the 28th, and am happy to find the method pursued at
Pittsburgh, on the 2."ith, did not very materially differ from that you
had been pleased to direct.
Doctor Conolly was arrested previous to the meeting, by my or
ders, on his avowing himself the author of the advertisements re
quiring the people to meet as a militia, and committed on refusing
to find sureties for his good behavior till next court.
I was in hopes the sending him out of the way1 would have put
1 Conolly was taken to llunnustown where there was a sort of jail and
there confined.
280 The St. Clair Papers.
an end to it altogether ; but I was mistaken. About eighty per
sons in arms assembled themselves, chiefly from Mr. Croghan's
neighborhood, and the country west of and below the Monongahela,
and, after parading through the town, and making a kind of feu de
joie, proceeded to the Fort,1 where a cask of rum was produced on
the parade, and the head knocked out. This was a very effectual
way of recruiting. As a scene of drunkenness and confusion was
likely to ensue, I got the magistrates (who attended in consequence
of the letters I had sent them) together, and read the inclosed pa
per,' which we had concocted that morning, and, at the conclusion,
1 Fort Pitt.
* The paper re ferred to was as follows :
"As friends and fellow countrymen, which we ought all to consider each
other, from whatever different quarters of the globe we have met here, suf
fer that wo make you acquainted with some things of which you ought not
to be ignorant.
" "We do not blame you for having an affection for the laws of the coun
tries and provinces in which you have been born ; 'tis a natural, 'tis a praise
worthy affection 1 And it requires a length of time and diligent application
to discover and give the deserved preference to different systems of laws
and forms of Government, for which but few have either leisure or oppor
tunity.
" We do not tell you the plan of Pennsylvania is a perfect one. Such, no
human institution is or ever was; but the rapid progress Pennsylvania has
made, the numbers of people that flock to it from every part of the world,
and particularly the much greater value of landed property than in the ad
joining parts of the neighboring countries, evince that it is no very defec
tive one; evince that its laws are mild and salutary, and that property and
liberty, civil and religious, is well secured, and that it has some advantages
over its neighbors.
" We doubt not but you will readily acknowledge these matters: but you
will reply, it is nothing to us; the soil we live on being no part of Penn
sylvania; we can have no part of the advantages or disadvantages arising
from its constitution.
" We well know much pains havo been taken to persuade many of you
to a belief of this, and likewise that the Proprietaries have industriously de
layed to settle their boundary. There is not the least foundation for either.
" The Proprietaries of Pennsylvania claimed the country about Pittsburgh,
and the settlers quietly acquiesced in that claim; and as soon as doubts be
gan to arise about it they took effectual pains to satisfy themselves whether
or not they were right in that claim, and actually found the country a con
siderable distance west of that place within their Province: And so far are
they from delaying the running their boundary line, we have the bo-^t au
thority for saying that a petition has been a considerable time before his
Majesty for that very purpose. You must be sensible it would bo to little
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 281
-when they were required to disperse, they replied they had been in
vited there, but came with peaceable intentions, and would go home
again, without molesting anyone; on which we left them; how
ever, towards night, their peaceable disposition forsook them, and I
should probably have felt their resentment, had I not got intimation
purpose to run it without the concurrence of the Crown ; certainly it would
never be conclusive.
"The jurisdiction of Pennsylvania has been regularly extended to Pitts
burgh, and exercised there for a number of years, as the records of Cum
berland, Iied ford, and Westmoreland counties testify; and you yourselves
have acknowledged it, by applying for your lands in that Province. Whether
that cxtention has been legally mado or not, can bo determined by the Crown
alone; but must be submitted to till it is determined. And it must be evi
dent to you that Lord Dunmore, as Governor of Virginia, can have no
more right to determine this matter than one of us, for this plain reason:
the charters of Pennsylvania and Virginia, both flowed originally from the
Crown; on that footing they arc perfectly independent of each other; but
they are both parties in this dispute, and consequently neither can be judge.
" We would fondly hepe no person in this country would wish to be from
tmder the protection of law. A state of anarchy and confusion, and total
subversion of property must inevitably ensue. We can not help thinking
contending jurisdictions in one and the same country must produce similar
effects, and every attempt to introduce modes or regulations not warranted
by the laws or constitution of Pennsylvania will also do so in a certain
degree.
"Any grievances the inhabitants of this part of the country suffer, there
is no doubt the Legislature want only to be informed of to redress. Should
it be imagined the protection of a military force is necessary, the votes and
proceedings of the last winter session of Assembly will shew that, probably,
it was owing to the representions of the Indian Agent, that an Indian war
would certainly follow, establishing a military force at Pittsburgh, that such
protection was not then granted, and time seems to have shewn he was not
in the wrong.
"If that effect would have supervened at a time when his Majesty's troops
were just withdrawn, when the country was naked, defenseless, and
alarmed, and when the Indians were accustomed to the idea of troops in
their neighborhood, much more is it to be doubted the establishing a militia,
which is a military force, will produco that effect now when they have been
so long disused to it.
"As his Majesty's Justices and Protectors of the public peace of Penn
sylvania, it is our duty to tell you your meeting is an unlawful one, and
that it tends to disquiet the minds of his Majesty's lioge subjects. We do
in his Majesty's name require you to disperse, and retiro yourselves peace
ably to your respective habitations.
" Present when this was read : Alexander McKee, William Lochey, James
Pollock, James Cavet, ^Eneas Mackay, Van Sweringen, William Bracken,
Arthur St. Clair, K-q'rs."
282 The St. Clair Papers.
of their design. I thought it most prudent to keep out of their
way.1
I have no doubt the magistrates will do their duty with spirit,
and I shall take the earliest opportunity to make them acquainted
with the support your Honor is determined to afford them. In
some parts of the country they will have a difficult task, and I am
really afraid this affair will be productive of a "great deal of confu
sion. I shall not fail to give them the necessary caution with regard
to the Riot Act, and I think I can judge pretty nearly how far it
may be safely extended.
Mr. Conolly has most certainly a commission from Lord Dunmore,
expressly for Pittsburgh and its dependencies, and his subalt
erns are John Stephenson, a brother of Mr. Crawford, our Senior
magistrate,2 William Harrison, a son-in-law of his,3 and Dorsey Penticost,
who was lately in the commission of the peace here.' Mr.
Penticost has, I hear, been down to Mr. Conolly since his confine
ment, and taken the necessary oaths to qualify him for his military
office, and is to assemble the people at Red Stone, and take posses
sion of Fort Burd.3 I have written to the justices in that part of
1"On the 25th day of January last, a number of disorderly persons as
sembled themselves here in consequence of his [Conolly s] advertisements
(as Militia) who, when dispersing, wantonly or maliciously fired upon some
friendly Indians, in their Hutts on the Indian Shere, which Conduct, to
gether with So unexpected an Appearance of so many People in Arms at a
time that they expected no Hostile Intention on our parts, greatly alarmed
them, as appeared by a Camplaint made by them at a Courtcil with Alex
ander Me., [Kee], Ksij'r, Indian Agent, and some of the Inhabitants of this
Place [Pittsburgh], a few days after." —Remarks on the Proceedings of Dr.
Conolly, Jane 25, 1774.
2 Mention will hereafter be made of William Crawford. He had a brother
Valentine, and five half-brothers, among whom was John Stephenson.
* William Harrison married Crawford's daughter Sarah; he afterward
lost his life in the Indian country, being tortured to death by the Delawares.
4 Dorsey Pentecost lived, at this (lute, in the " Forks of Yough " ; that is,
above the junction of the Monongahcla and Youghiogheny. He was a jus
tice of the peace for Bedford County before Westmoreland was taken from
it, and was now a resident of the last mentioned county. He afterward had
his hemo on Chartiers Creek, Washington County.
6 Fort Burd was so called after Col. James Burd, who probably com
menced the building of the post in 1759. There was an old Indian fort on
its site and the place was known to hunters as "Old Fort," "Old Fort at
Redstone," or " Redstone-Old- Fort, '" as it was near the mouth of Redstone
creek, now Brownsville, Fayette County, Pennsylvania.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 283
the country to watch his motions. Mr. McKee1 is said to be ap
pointed a justice by Lord Dunmore, but I would fain hope without
his consent; at any rate he behaved very well on the late occasion,
and, as he was doubted, I made a point of having him there under
pretense of his being Indian Agent, but in fact, if he was a friend
or abettor of Conolly's measures.
It is, sir, extremely'grateful to me that my conduct in any part
meets with your approbation ; but should I forget to be attentive
to any thing that may disturb the happiness of your Government,
or from which you may receive a personal injury, I should be guilty
of the grossest breach of duty, as well as the blackest ingrati
tude, neither of which, I trust, will ever be the case.
William Smith2 to Arthur St. Claik.
Phtlad'a, Feb'y 8th, 1774.
Dear Sir : —About the breaking up of the Assembly, Capt. Thom
son went to the Governor and got the promise of Mr. McCrea's dis
trict to be added to his own. Mr. Woods hearing of this, got his
friends to represent to the Governor, that he had the first promise
from Mr. Lukens. Mr. Shippen and I likewise told the Governor
that you had the first promise during Richard Penn's administra
tion, and the Governor then declared that if you had the first prom
ise, no one else should have it, for that there was no person he would
sooner oblige than you. But, on the whole, as these matters were
before he came in as Governor the last time, he left Mr. Lukens to
declare who was the first applier to him, and to act accordingly. He
therefore certified to the Governor that Mr. Woods was the first ap
plier and he has got the district, and I undertook to make you easy
about the matter, which I was the more willing to do, as I believe
the district is now of very little value ; and I know of something
which you may have, of six times the value, tho' I dare not trust
1 Alexander McKee was a native of Pennsylvania and early became a
trader among the Indians, carrying on a large business from Pittsburgh in
conjunction with Alexander Ross, from 1768 to 1772, when he became Sir
"William Johnson's Deputy Indian Agent, resident at that place. He was,
upon the erection of Bedford county, made one of its justices; and, upon the
creation of Westmoreland, his commission was extended for that county.
He became a noted Loyalist during the Revolution.
* William Smith was a prominent citizen of Bedford, a brother of Thomas
Smith, hereafter mentioned.
284 The St. Clair Papers.
it to a letter but wish I might see you between this and next Spring,
viz : in April if it might suit your other affairs. You must not
think that because this was suffered to go to Mr. Woods, that your
friends had forgot you. I shall be able to convince you that it was
all meant for your interest. I shall be glad to hear how matters go
at Fort.
Joseph Spear to Arthur St. Clair.
Pittsburgh, February 23, 1774.
Dear Sir:—I am just now informed that the Virginians up the
Monongahela have had two or three musters lately ; one at Red
Stone Old Fort, and one yesterday at Paul Freman's, on the other
side of the Monongahela; and I am also told they had a meeting at
Mr. Penticost's own house, in consequence of which Mr. Penticost
wrote to Mr. Swearingen to act no longer there as a Penusylvanian
magistrate at his peril. I therefore think it would be advisable to
endeavor to have a stop put to those proceedings, if possible, as it
creates the greatest disturbance, and very much retards the execu
tion of our civil process.
P. S. —This news has just come to hand, otherwise I would have
written you more fully. Dr. Conolly 1 is just now going over the run
to Red Stone, I know not what for.
Arthur St. Clair to Joseph Shippen, Jr.
Ligonier, February 25, 1774.
Dear Sir : —The disturbances that have begun in this country seem
still to be increasing, and, unless some effectual method is soon
fallen upon to put a stop to them, will soon come to a formidable
head. What that method should be it is difficult to say, but possi
bly the running a temporary line might quiet the people a little
though I doubt very much if even that would not now be opposed.
As much the greatest part of the inhabitants near the line have
removed from Virginia, they are inexpressibly fond of any thing
that comes from that quarter, and their minds are never suffered to
be at rest. Mr. Croghan's emissaries (and it is astonishing how
1 After Conolly was committed to jail at Hannastown, the sheriff let bim
go at large on his giving his word of honor to return to next Court. He
did return, but in a manner quite different from that expected by the .sheriff,
as the sequel shows.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 285
many he has either duped or seduced to embrace his measures) are
continually irritating them against Pennsylvania, and assuring them
they are not within its limits; so that unless Lord Dun more does
formally recede from what he has undertaken in this country, it will
be next to impossible to exercise the civil authority. From the
very beginning I foretold a second Carolina affair was intended, I
am now convinced of it.
I have letters from all the magistrates in that part of the country,
complaining of the difficulties they are exposed to, and the open and
avowed determination of the people not to submit to their jurisdic
tions. However, they are all still as yet, and I will do what in my
power lies to continue them so; as one step towards it, and to con
vince the others that we in some measure are in earnest, I intend
immediately removing my office to Pittsburgh, adjoining, there to
live the moment I can get my farm oft' my hands here.
I enclose you a letter from Mr. Spear,1 which I received by the
bearer. I shall immediately write to Mr. Swearingen to commit,
without ceremony, any person who shall attempt to oppose or molest
him in the execution of his office. Excuse the haste I am almost
always obliged to write to you in ; opportunities offer unexpectedly,
and the people waiting.
Lord Dunmore to Governor Penn.
Williamsburg, 3d March, 1774.
Sir:—I have been favored with your letter of the 31st January,
1774, and duplicate of the same, the occasion of which having been
the appointment of certain officers by me in a remote district of the
county ot Augusta,2 in this Colony, which includes Pittsburgh, which
having been done, as is always my rule, with the advice of his Maj
esty's Council, I could not, till I had an opportunity of laying your
letter before them, return you an answer, and it is not till now that
I am enabled so to do.
From the opinion, therefore, of his Majesty's Council of this
1 See the previous letter—Spear to St. Clair, February 23, 1774.
1The county of Augusta was, at this date, an old one. but over of very
uncertain western limits. The "remote district," spoken of by Lord Dunmore,
was what was usually known as the " District of West Augusta," in
cluding, besides, much other territory in what is now the State of West
Virginia, all the present State of Pennsylvania lying upon the waters of
the Monongahela, as well as the country surrounding Pittsburgh.
286 The St. Clair Papers.
Colon)', I must inform you, that although the calculations on which
you rely in the plan accompanying your letter, may possibly be
found exact, yet they can by no means be considered, by us, as the
observation, on which they were founded, was made without the
participation of the Government, or the assistance of any person on
the part of the Crown ; and even if they were admitted, we ap
prehend they would decide nothing in the present case ; for the right
of the Proprietaries of Pennsylvania to the country about Pittsburgh,
must be founded on better authority than is there adduced to make
it valid, and we are strengthened in this opinion by the principles
you yourself -adopt, and the opinion of Lord Camden, which you
have produced in your dispute with Connecticut. With respect to
the right of this Colony to that country, the transactions of the late
war show sufficiently what was ever the sense of the Government of
Virginia with regard to it. And it seems to me that the step which
I have taken ought not to have been either unexpected or surpris
ing, as you are pleased to say it was to you, when it is well known
that formal declarations were made by the Assembly of Pennsyl
vania, that Pittsburg was not within the jurisdiction of that Govvernment
at the time that requisitions were made to them for the de
fense of that place, the burden of which, on that account, fell on
this Government.
In conformity to these sentiments you will easily see I can not
possibly, in compliance with your request, either revoke the com
missions and appointments already made, or defer the opportunity
of such other officers as I may find necessary for the good govern
ment of that part of the country, which we can not but consider to
be within the dominion of Virginia, until his Majesty shall declare
the contrary ; and I flatter myself I can rely so far on the prudence
and discretion of the officers whom I have appointed, that the
measure which I have pursued may have no tendency to raise dis
turbances in your Province, as you seem to apprehend, and if any
should ensue I can not but believe they will be occasioned, on the
contrary, by the violent proceedings of your officers ; in which opin
ion I am justified by what has already taken place in the irregular
commitment of Mr. John Conolly for acting under my authority,
which, however, as I must suppose, it was entirely without your
participation, I conclude he is before this time released. But,
nevertheless, the act having been of so outrageous a nature, and of
a tendency so detrimental to both Colonies, that, with the advice
of his Majesty's Council of this dominion, I do insist upon the most
ample reparation being made for so great an insult on the authority
of his Majesty's Government of Virginia ; and no less can possibly
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 287
be admitted than the dismission of the clerk (St. Clair) of West
moreland county, who had the audacity, without any authority, to
commit a magistrate in the legal discharge of his trust, unless he
(St. Clair} can prevail, by proper submission, on Mr. Conollv, to
demand his pardon of me.
Governor Penn to Lord Dunmore
Philadelphia, 31st March, 1774.
My Lord:—I was favored with yours of the third of this month
by express, which arrived when several of the gentlemen of the
Council were out of town, and it being also my rule to consult the
Council upon all occasions of a public nature, I could not possibly
give your Lordship's letter an answer by the return of your mes
senger, who stayed but a very short time in town. I am sorry the
papers I enclosed you had not the desired effect. I never expected
they would be taken as decisive of the boundaries of Pennsylvania,
as conclusive upon your Government, but I had reason to hope they
contained such information as would show at least a very strong
probability that Pittsburgh, the place of dispute, was within this
Province, and not subject to the Government of Virginia, and from
them I concluded you would be convinced of the impropriety of a
step which I conceived must have been taken upon a supposition
that that place was certainly beyond our limits. But I perceive
your Lordship hath taken upon opinion that it is not material
whether it be within our charter bounds or not, and that the right
of the proprietors of Pennsylvania to the country about Pittsburgh
must be founded on better authority than the Royal grant ! And as
your Lordship seems to imagine yourself supported in this sentiment
by our own principles in Lord Camden's opinion upon our case with
Connecticut, the transactions of the late war, and the declarations
of our Assembly some time ago, I will take the liberty of endeavoring
to set you right in some matters which you do not seem to be fully
informed of, being persuaded that if I can be so happy as to place
them in a different point of light from what you have heretofore
viewed them in, you will be candid enough to change your senti
ments.
In the year 1752, the Proprietors of Pennsylvania understanding
that the Government of Virginia were about to erect forts upon the
Ohio, in order to repel the encroachments of the French on the
properties of the subjects of his Britannic Majesty, they instructed
their then Governor, Mr. Hamilton, to assist in any measures of r
288 The &. Clair Papers.
that sort, taking an acknowledgment from the Governor of Virginia
that such settlement should not be made use of to prejudice their
right to that country, and at the same time allowed him to give as
surances that the people should enjoy their lands they bona fide set
tled on the common quit rent. Of this instruction Mr. Hamilton
not long after gave notice to Governor Dinwiddie.
In the year 1754, Mr. Dinwiddie came to a resolution of raising
men and building forts to the westward, in order to repel the in
vasions of the French. He had fixed upon the forks of Monongahela
as a proper situation for oue of these forts, supposing it to
be on his Majesty's lauds, aud issued a proclamation, expressing his
purpose of erecting a fort at that place, and inviting the people to
enlist in his Majesty's service against the French ; and as an en
couragement, promising that the quantity of two hundred thousand
acres of land should be laid out and divided amongst the adventurers,
when the service should be at an end ; one hundred thousand acres of
which to be laid out adjoining the fort, and the other one hundred
thousand acres on the Ohio.
Upon the appearance of this proclamation Mr. Hamilton wrote to
Governor Dinwiddie, the 13th March, 1754, reminding him of his
former intimation respecting these lands, aud enclosing an abstract
of the Proprietaries' instructions, and also requesting from him such
an acknowledgment as the Proprietaries expected; to which Mr.
Dinwiddie, in his letter of the 21st March, 1754, answers: " Your
"private letter of the 13th current, I have duly received, and am
"much misled by our Surveyors if the forks of Monongahela be
"within the limits of your Proprietaries' grant. I have for some
" time wrote home to have the line run, to have the boundaries
" properly known, that I may be able to appoint Magistrates on the
" Ohio, (if in this Government) to keep the traders and others in
"good order, and I presume soon there will be Commissioners ap"
pointed for that service. In the mean time, that no hindrance
" may be given to our intended expedition, it is highly reasonable,
" if these lands are in your Proprietaries' grant, that the settlers
"should pay the quit rent to Mr. Penn, and not to his Majesty;
" and, therefore, as much as lies in my power, I agree thereto, after
" the time granted by my proclamation, to be clear of quit rent,
"ceases."
From this correspondence between the Governors of Virginia and
Pennsylvania, it appears beyond a doubt, that the terms upon which
forts were built, aud settlements made in that country, by the Gov
ernment of Virginia, were well understood, and the rights of Penn
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 289
sylvania carefully guarded ; and these transactions entirely exclude
the idea of that kind of settlement, or acquiescence and agreement
of which Lord Camden speaks, and which are the only principles in
his opinion from which your Lordship can draw any conclusions in
favor of the right of Virginia.
From this view of the matter I flatter myself your Lordship will
readily perceive that the principles of Lord Camden's opinion do
not all apply to the present case. As to the opinion of our Assem
blies, on which you seem also to rely, the case is shortly as follows :
When Governor Dinwiddie resolved to erect forts on the waters of
the Ohio, and to carry an expedition against the French, who had
fortified themselves in several parts of the country to the westward,
he applied to Governor Hamilton to procure him the assistance of
this Province. Unfortunately at this time there was no very good
un lerstanding between the Government and the Assembly, and
when Mr. Hamilton laid Mr. Dinwiddie's rccpuisition before them
they declined complying with it, and urged for reasons, that, by the
Royal orders to the several Governors, they were not to act as prin
cipals out of their own Governments. That they (the Assembly)
would not presume to determine upon the limits of the Province;
and that by the papers and evidences sent down to them, and re
ferred to by the Governor, the limits of the Province had not been
clearly ascertained to their satisfaction.
It is to be observed, that at this time there had been no real men
surations from Delaware to the westward, except the temporary line
between this Province and Maryland, which extends only one hun
dred and forty-four miles from Delaware. From this line, and from
sundry informations of Indian traders, founded on computed dis
tances, and mountainous and crooked roads, Mr. Hamilton con
cluded that the French forts were considerably within this Province,
and it hath since appeared with certainty that the fact was so,
though the Assembly were not satisfied with those proofs. And it
appears by a report of a Committee of Assembly, appointed to
examine those evidences, that they laid no great stress upon the
opinions of traders founded on computed distances.
Upon the whole I can not find that the Assembly ever made any
thing like formal declarations " that Pittsburg was not within this
Government," but that they rather declined making any determina
tion upon the extent of the Province. But if their declarations had
been ever so formal or positive, I can not conceive how any proceed
ings of theirs would affect the state of the Province, control of tlw
jurisdiction, or prejudice the rights of the proprietors.
19
290 The St. Clair Papers.
Your Lordship is pleased to say : " With respect to the right of
this Colony to that country, the transactions of the late war suffi
ciently show what was ever the sense of the Government of Vir
ginia with regard to it." I do not know to what particular trans
actions you allude, nor can I apprehend upon what principle the
sense of the Government of Virginia can prejudice the right of
Pennsylvania, especially when the Governor of this Province was so
far from concurring in any such sense, that he took the most effectual
measures to guard against any conclusions which might be drawn
from it ; and I may say, with the strictest truth, that the Govern
ment of Virginia, with great justice, concurred in this precaution.
Upon the whole, then, my Lord, I hope the papers I heretofore
had the honor of sending you, when properly attended to, will sat
isfy you that Pittsburgh is at least probably within the charter lim
its of this Province : and I flatter myself that what I have now
urged will be sufficient to convince you that nothing can be inferred
from the transactions of the late war, the correspondence between
the Governors of the two Provinces, the proceedings of our As
sembly, or the principles of Lord Camden's opinion, to contract the
extent o.f our charter bounds, or establish the right of Virginia to
any part of this Province. I therefore still hope that your Lord
ship will, upon a review of the subject, be induced to defer attempting
to extend the jurisdiction of Virginia within the bounds of this
Province, and thereby avoid the occasions of disturbances and disseutions
amongst his Majesty's subjects, which will probably ensue
from such a step, however prudent and cautious the Magistrates on
each side may be inclined to be, and the rather as a petition for a
commission to run out and mark the boundaries between us is now
depending before his Majesty. And to prevent the setting up claims,
and making conclusions of right by the Government of Virginia,
from the circumstances of settlement on the one side, and non-claim
on the other, I must take this opportunity of notifying to your
Lordship that the Proprietaries of Pennsylvania do claim, by their
said petition, as part of their Province of Pennsylvania, all the lands
lying west of a south line, to be drawn from Dixon and Mason's
line, as it is commonly called, at the westernmost part of the Province
of Maryland to the beginning of the fortieth degree of north lati
tude, to the extent of five degrees of longitude from the river Del
aware ; and I must request your Lordship will neither grant lands,
nor exercise the Government of Virginia within those limits, till
his Majesty's pleasure be known.
I am truly concerned that you should think the commitment of
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 291
Mr. Conolly so great an insult on the authority of the Government
of Virginia, as nothing less than Mr. St. Clair's dismission from his
offices can repair. The lands in the neighborhood of Pittsburgh were
surveyed for the Proprietaries of Pennsylvania early in the year
1769, and a very rapid settlement under this Government soon took
place, and magistrates were appointed by this Government to act
there in the beginning of 1771, who have ever since administered
justice without any interposition of the Government of Virginia till
the present affair. It therefore could not fail of being both sur
prising and alarming that Mr. Conolly should appear to act on that
stage under a commission from Virginia, before any intimation of
claim or right was ever notified to this Government. The adver
tisement of Mr. Conolly had a strong tendency to raise disturbances,
and occasion a breach of the public peace, in a part of the country
where the jurisdiction of Pennsylvania hath been exercised without
objection, and therefore Mr. St. Clair thought himself bound, as a
good Magistrate, to take a legal notice of Mr. Conolly.
Mr. St. Clair is a gentleman who for a long time had the honor
of serving his Majesty in the regulars with reputation, and in every
station of life has preserved the character of a very honest worthy
man ; and though perhaps I should not, without first expostulating
with you on this subject, have directed him to take that step, yet
you must excuse my not complying with your Lordship's requisition
of stripping him, on this occasion, of his offices and livelihood, which
you will allow me to think not only unreasonable, but somewhat
dictatorial.
I should be extremely concerned that any misunderstanding should
take place between this Government and that of Virginia. I shall
carefully avoid every occasion of it, and shall always be ready to
join you in the proper measures to prevent so disagreeable an in
cident, yet I can not prevail on myself to acceed in the manner you
require, to a claim which I esteem, and which I think must appear
to every body else to be altogether groundless.
William Crawford1 to Governor Penn.
Westmoreland County, April 8th, 1774.
Sir :—As some very extraordinary occurrences have lately hap
pened in this county, it is necessary to write an account of them to
1 Crawford, at this date, was President of the Court in Westmoreland.
He was the first to held that office. During the year of 1770, he was pa
292 The St. Clair Papers.
you. That which I now give, is at the request and with the appro
bation of all the magistrates that are at present attending the court
A few weeks ago Mr. Connolly1 went to Stanton and was sworn in
as a justice of the peace for Augusta county, in which it is pre
tended that the country about Pittsburgh is included. He had, be
fore this, brought with him, from Williamsburg, commissions of the
peace for several gentlemen in his part of the Province, but none
. of them, I believe, have been accepted. A number of new militia
officers have been lately appointed by Lord Dunmorc ; several mus
ters of the militia have been held, and much confusion has been
occasioned by them.2
1 am informed that the militia is composed of men without char
acter and without fortune, and who would be equally averse to the
regular administration of justice under the Colony of Virginia as
they are to that under the Province of Pennsylvania. The disturb
ances which they have produced at Pittsburgh have been contin
ually alarming to the inhabitants. Mr. Connolly is constantly sur
rounded with a body of armed men. He boasts the countenance
of the Governor of Virginia, and forcibly obstructs the execution
of legal process, whether from the court or from single magistrates.
A deputy sheriff has come from Augusta county, and I am told has
writs in his hands against Captain St. Clair and the sheriff, for the
arrest and confinement of Mr. Connolly.
The sheriff was last week arrested at Pittsburgh for serving a
writ on oue of the inhabitants there, but was, after some time, dis
charged. On Monday last, one of Connolly's people grossly in
sulted Mr. Mackay, and was confined by him in order to be sent to
jail; the rest of the party hearing of it, immediately came to Mr.
Mackay's house and proceeded to the most violent outrages. Mrs.
pointed one of the magistrates for the county of Cumberland, within the
limits of which was his home, as claimed by Pennsylvania. Upon the erec
tion of Bedford the next year out of a portion of Cumberland, his commis
sion was renewed for that county; finally, when Westmoreland, in 1773, was
erected into a county from Bedford, his office was continued; and, being
the first named, he became by courtesy and usage presiding judge of its courts.
1The spelling of personal names is preserved in the text of the letters.
Hence the lack of uniformity in that respect.
2 The visit of Conolly to Staunton was mado after the sheriff of West
moreland county had given him his liberty upon his word of honor to re
turn to Hannastown at the next sitting of the court, which was to take
place early in April. He returned to Pittsburgh towards the latter part of
March, and prepared to make good his word to Sheriff Proctor. It will
now be seen in what way he kept his promise.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 293
Mackay was wounded in the arm with a cutlass ; the magistrates,
and those who came to their assistance, were treated with much
abuse, and the prisoner was rescued.
Some days before the meeting of the court, a report was spread
that the militia officers at the head of their several companies would
come to Hanna's, use the court ill, and interrupt the administration
of justice. On Wednesday, while the court was adjourned, thev
came to the court-house and paraded before it ; sentinels were placed
at the door, aud Mr. Connolly went into the house. One of the
magistrates was hindered, by the militia, from going into it till per
mission was first obtained from their commander. Mr. Connolly
sent a message to the magistrates, informing them that he wanted
to communicate something to them, and would wait on them for
that purpose.
They received him in a private room. He read to them the in
closed paper,1 together with a copy of a letter to you, which Lord
Dunmore had transmitted to him,2 inclosed in a letter to himself,
which was written in the same angry and undignified style. The
magistrates gave the inclosed answer 3 to what he read ; and he
1 The paper read by Conolly to the Westmoreland Court was in these words:
''Gentlemen: I am come here to be the occasion of no disturbances, but
to prevent them. As I am countenanced by Government, whatever you may
say or conceive, some of the justices of this bench are the cause of this ap
pearance, and not me. I have done this to prevent myself from being ille
gally taken to Philadelphia. My orders from the Government of Virginia,
rot being explicit, but claiming the country about Pittsburgh, I have raised
the militia to support the civil authority of that colony vested in me.
"I am come here to free myself from a promise made to Captain Proctor
[the sheriff], but have not conceived myself amenable to this court, by any
autherity from Pennsylvania, upon which account I can not apprehend that
you have any right to remain here as justices of the peace constituting a
court under that province; but, in order to prevent confusion, I agree that
yon may continue to act in that capacity, in all such matters as may be sub
mitted to your determination by the acquiescence of the people, until I may
have instructions to the contrary from Virginia, or until his Majesty's
pleasure shall be further known on this subject."
2This was the letter of March 3, 177-1—Dunmore to Penn—previously
given.
2The answer of the Westmoreland Court to Conolly's paper was as
follows:
"The jurisdiction of the court and officers of the county of Westmore
land rests on the legislative authority of the Province of Pennsylvania, con
firmed by his Majesty in council. That jurisdiction has been regularly
exercised, and the court and officers will continue to exercise it in the same
regular manner. It is far from their intention to occasion or foment dis
294 The St. Clair Papers.
soon afterwards departed with his men. Their number was about
one hundred and eighty or two hundred. On their return to Pitts
burgh, some of them seized Mr. Elliott, of the Bullock Pen,1 and
threatened to put him in the stocks for something which they
deemed an affront offered to their commander. 8ince their return,
a certain Edward Thompson and a young man who keeps store for
Mr. Spear, have been arrested by them ; and Mr. Connolly, who,
in person, seized the young man, would not allow him time even to
lock up the store.
In other parts of the county, particularly those adjoining the
Monongahela, the magistrates have been frequently insulted in the
most indecent and violent manner, and are apprehensive that, un
less they are speedily and vigorously supported by the Government,
it will become both fruitless and dangerous for them to proceed in
the execution of their offices. They presume not to point out the
measures proper for settling the present disturbances, but beg leave
, to recommend the fixing of a temporary line with the utmost expe
dition, as one step, which, in all probability, will contribute very
much toward producing that effect.
For further particulars concerning the situation of this country,
I refer you to Colonel Wilson, who is kind enough to go on the
present occasion to Philadelphia.'1
turbances, and they apprehend that no such intentions can, with propriety,
bo inferred from any part of their conduct ; on the contrary, they wish, and
will do all in their power, to preserve the public tranquillity. In order to
contribute to this very salutary purpose, they give information that every
step will be taken on the part of the Province of Pennsylvania to accommo
date any differences that have arisen between it and the Colony of Virginia,
by fixing a temporary lino between them.
1"William Elliott deposed that he settled and improved a plantation
about seven miles from Fort Pitt, on the public road, at a place called 'the
Bullock Pens,' ... by permission of Col. Reed, the officer command
ing at that place [Fort Pitt], dated Auyust 29, 1765, and is now [1777) in
possession of the same "— Vlrg. Col. State Papers, Vol I., p. 280.
2The reply of Governor Penn to Crawford's letter was dated April 12th,
at Philadelphia. It was directed to " William Crawford, Enquire, and his
Associate Justices of Westmoreland County," and was as follows:
" Gentlemen : The present alarming Situation of our Affairs in Westmore
land County, occasioned by the very unaccountable conduct of the Govern
ment of Virginia, requires the utmost Attention of this Government, and
therefore I intend, with all possible Expedition, to send Commissioners to
expostulate with my Lord Dunmoro upon the Behavior of those he has
thought proper to invest. with such Power as hath greatly disturbed tha
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 295
Arthur St. Clair to Benjamin Chew.1
Carlisle, April 28, 1774.
Sir:—In conversation with Colonel Wilson the other day, he men
tioned a transaction in Virginia, which if it be as he represents it,
will throw some light upon what has been the "sense of that
Colony, with regard to the country about Fort Pitt." Colonel
Stephens,1 it seems, in the year 1764, when that fortress was bePeace
of that country. As the Government of Virginia hath the Power of
raising a Militia, and there is not any such in this Province, it will be in
vain to contend with them in the way of Force; the Magistrates, therefore,
at the same Time that they continue with steadiness to exercise the Juris
diction of Pennsylvania with respect to the distributions of Justice and
punishment of Vice, must be cautious of entering into any such contests
with the Officers of my Lord Dunmore, as may tend to widen the present
unhappy Breach; and, therefore, as Things are at present circumstanced, I
would not advise the Magistracy of Westmoreland County to proceed by
way of criminal prosecution against them for exercising the Government
of Virginia.
" 1 flatter myself that our Commissioners to Virginia will succeed accord
ing to our Expectations, and that our Affairs to the Westward will soon be
put upon a peaceable and quiet Footing. I am, etc."
It is necessary to mention, at this point, an occurrence which took place
two days subsequent to the date of the above letter, for the reason that it
has an important bearing on the events following; and, for the further rea
son, that, in the letters of St. Clair, no account is given of it:
On the 8th of April, the justices, jEneas Mackay, Devcreux Smith, and
Andrew McFarlane, returned from court at Hannustown to their homes in
Pittsburgh. The next day they were arrested by a Virginia deputy sheriff,
at Conolly's instigation, and, on refusing to uive bnil, were sent off under
guard to Staunton, county-town, at that period, of Augusta county, Vir
ginia. After traveling one day together, Mr. Mackay, one of the three
justices, got permission to go to Williamsburg to see Lord Dunmore. After
some conversation with his Lordship, the latter wrote to the sheriff, request
ing him to allow the prisoners to return home. Mackay immediately pro
ceeded to Staunton, and his fellow-prisoners were at once liberated.
1 Benjamin Chew was born in Anne Arundel county. Maryland, No
vember 29, 1722. He was a lawyer by profession, and settled in 17-13 on the
Delaware, but in 1754 removed to Philadelphia, where he held respectively
the offices of Recorder, Register of Wills, and Attorney-General. He became
Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, the day after the
above letter was written. He had been a member of the Provincial Coun
cil of Pennsylvania for a number of years, and as such was written to by
St. Clair at this date.
2Adam Stephen was a meritorious Virginia officer in the Colonial wars.
He was a captain in the Ohio expedition of 1754, serving with distinction
under Braddock. He became, afterward, a Virginia Brigadier-General.
296 The St. Clair Papers.
sieged by the Indians,1 sent a detachment of the militia to escort
some provisions for the relief of the besieged ; for this he was com
plained of to the Assembly, and censured for sending the militia
out of the Government.
I have heard, sir, that you are to go to Williamsburg,2 and im
agined in that case, this hint would not be disagreeable. I wish
you a pleasant journey.
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Pejtn.
Ligonier, May 29, 1774.
I doubt not before this time you have expected some account
from me of the situation of this country, but as I could not write
with certainty respecting the intentions of the Indians I chose to
defer it.2
1This was during the so-called "Conspiracy of Pontiac." The siege
spoken of by St. Clair was in 1763.
2That is, St. Clair hud been informed that Chew was to be one of the
Commissioners appointed by the Government of Pennsylvania to treat with
the Governor of Virginia, on the subject of the disturbances in Westmore
land county; but the persons so appointed were James Tilghman and An
drew Allen —both members of the Provincial Council. They were "to
treat and agree with the Kight Honorable John, Karl of Dunmore, Governor
of Virginia, concerning the Settlement of the Western Bounds and Limits
of the Province of Pennsylvania, and preserving the Public Peace and
Tranquillity on the Borders," etc.
•This is the first hint, in this correspondence, of the animosity between
the Virginians on the one side, and the Mingoes and Shawanese on the
other, which finally brought on what is known in history as " Lord Dunmore's
War." One of the causes of these troubles was the general antag
onism of the red and white races, then being brought nearer and nearer each
other as the Virginians continued to survey land and make settlements
down the Ohio. Concerning the first overt acts on each side, accounts of
that period differ somewhat, as shewn by the following (See The Waahington-Crawforil
Letters, By C. W. Butterfield. [Cincinnati, Robert Clarke
& Co., 1877.] pp. 8ti, 87 and 47, 48) :
I.
" Dear Sir .-—I am sorry to inform you the Indians have stopped all the
gentlemen from going down the river. In the first place, they killed one
Murphy, a trader, and wounded another; then robbed their canoes. This
alarmed the gentlemen very much; and Major Cresap took a party of men
and waylaid some Indians in their canoes, that were going down the river,
and shot two of them and scalped them. He also raised a party, took canoes
and followed somo Indians from Wheeling down to the Little Kanawha;
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 297
In my last to Mr. Shippen I think I mentioned that Mr. Croghan
had sent a Delaware chief (White Eyes) with two of our traders
with a message1 to the Shawanese; their return had been impatiently
expected. Tired at last with the suspense, I determined to go to
Fort Pitt whatever might be the consequence, and am just returned
from thence. I was lucky enough to arrive there the day they
came in, and though their accounts are alarming enough, yet I
can not think they are equal to the panic that has seized the country.
The Shawanese message is insolent enough ; and we have a cer
tain account that twenty of their warriors are gone out, but we have
still reason to -think they do not mean mischief to the people here,
as they lay all to the charge of the Big Knife, as they call the Vir
ginians. The substance of their speech is, that they think what
when, coming up with them, he killed three and wounded several. The In
dians wounded three of his men, only one of whom is dead; he was shot
through, while the other two were but slightly wounded. On Saturday last,
about twelve o'clock, one Greathouse, and about twenty men, fell on a party
of Indians at [opposite] the mouth of Yellow Creek, and killed ten of them.
They brought away one child a prisoner, which is now at my brother
William Crawford's. This alarm has caused the people to move from over
the Monongahela, off Chartier's and Knccoon [Creeks], us fast as ever you
saw them in the year 1756 or 17o7, down in Frederick county, Virginia.
There were more than one thousand people crossed the Monongahela in one
day at three ferries that arc not one mile apart.''— Valentine Crawford to
Washington, May 7, 177-1.
II.
"Sir:— . . • "The surveyors that went down the Kanawha, as report
goes, were stopped by the Shawanese Indians, upon which seme of the white
people attacked some Indians and killed several, took thirty horse-loads of
skins near the mouth of Scioto; on which news, and expecting an Indian
war, Mr. Cresap and some other people fell on some other Indians at the
mouth of Pipe Creek, killed three, and sculped them. Daniel Greathouse
and some others fell on some at the mouth of Yellow Creek and killed and
scalped ten, and took one child about two months old, which is now at my
house. 1 have taken the child from a woman that it had been given to. Our
inhabitants are much alarmed, many hundreds having gone over the moun
tain and the whole country evacuated as far as the Mononguhela; and
many on this [the cast] side of the river are gone over the mountain. In
short, a war is every moment expected. We have a council now with the
Indians. What will be the event I do not know."— William Crawford to
Washington, May 8, 1774.
1What Mr. Croghan sent in this message was, in substance, " that the
outrages which had been committed, were done by some of our ill-disposed
people, and witheut the least countenance from Government." The Delawares,
at this period, had their homes upon the Muskingum; the Shawanese
had theirs upon the Scioto.
298 The St. Clair Papers.
Mr. Croghan and Mr. McKee say to them is lies ; that they know
the path is open from Philadelphia, and that they will keep it so if
they please ; but that the Big Knife has struck them, and when
they have satisfaction they will speak to him, but not before , that
now they have no King, and are all upon their feet, with other
threatening expressions in their way.1 There were several chiefs
of the Delawares, and deputy of the Six Nations, (Goyasutha)
with eight others of the Seneca tribe, at Pittsburgh, by Mr. Croghan's
advice. They were called together and I made a short speech to them ; J they received it with pleasure, and in return gave the
strongest assurances that they wished for nothing more than to con
tinue in peace with this Province, and to become as one people. I
think there can be no doubt of the sincerity of the Delawares ; they
have given substantial proofs of it in the care they have taken of
the traders that were to have gone to the Shawanese ; and if the Six
Nations are in the same disposition, the war will be of little conse
quence, but I fear it is to be doubted whether Goyasutha knows the
sense of the league or not.
One of the traders who went with White Eyes was detained at
1 " White Eyes returned here [Pittsburgh] the 24th of May, and brought
with him ten white men, who had been protected by the Delawares eight
days in their towns, and guarded snfo to this place; he also brought a
speech from the Delawares, from which we have great reason to believe that
they are not inclined for war; we also believe that they will endeavor to
preserve the lives of the traders that are now amongst the Shawneese : he
also brought from the Shawneese chief (called the hard man,) an answer to
a speech sent to them by Mr. Croghan, upon this occasion, in which he
signifies that the Shuwnees are all warriors, and will not listen to us until
they have satisfaction, for what injuries they have received from the Vir
ginians, etc." —Devereu.v Smith to Dr. Smith, from Pittsburgh, June 10, 1477,
. 2 The speech made by St. Clair was as follows :
"Brothers of the Six Nations and Delawares:
"The Governor of Pennsylvania has heard your good speeches, nnd I am
come from him to thank you for the care you have taken of our traders, and
the pains you have been at to preserve the general peace. Your brothers
of Pennsylvania are determined to maintain the friendship subsisting be
twixt the Six Nations and Delawares and them entire, but as they aro
alarmed at the threatenings of the Shawanese. we recommend it to you to
prevent your people from hunting on our side of the river for some time, as
our people will not be able to distinguish betwixt them and these who may
be enemies.
"We wish and will endeavor to keep the path open to our brothers, and
will on our parts keep bright that chain of friendship which has been so
long held fast by their and our forefathers. An. St. Clair."
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 299
Newcomers Town; 1 they, it seems, thought it imprudent that more
than one should go very soon after the others left it. They were
met by a Shawanese man who fired at Duncan, within a very small
distance, but fortunately missed him. White Eyes immediately
called to him to make back to the town, and he himself got betwixt
tho Indian and him, and came up with him where he had stopped
r., l.iad his gun, and disarmed him; they both got safely back to
l!ic town, and were immediately shut up in a strong house, and a
guard kept on them day and night to preserve them from any at
tempt that might be made by the Shawanese or Mingoes (a small
part of these last live near the Shawanese, and are in a manner
incorporated with them) and this was continued till White Eyes went
down to the Shawanese town and returned, during all which time
they were furnished with provisions and every thing that could be
procured for them in the most liberal manner. This I think must
be an unequivocal mark of their disposition.
The mischief done by Cresap2 and Greathouse3 had been much
exaggerated when I wrote to Mr. Shippen, but the number of In
dians killed is exactly as I informed Mr. Allen, viz: thirteen.*
1The site of the present New Comerstown, in Tuscarawas county, Ohio.
2 The Pennsylvania account of "the mischief done by Cresap" was thisWilliam
Butler, a trader living in Pittsburgh, sent off a canoe from that
place on the loth of April, for the Shawanese towns on the waters of the
Scioto. This canoe was attacked by three Cherokee Indians, who killed one
white man and wounded another. About the 21st of April, Conolly, at
P tt-bnrgh, wrote a letter to the inhabitants at Wheeling, telling them that
I' I. a 1 been informed by good authority, that the Shawanese were ill-disp
.-id towards the white men. On the "24th of the same month, Mr. Butler
Mi:t another canoe down the Ohio in care of some Shawanese and whito
men. Cresap whe was below, hearing of the murder by the Cherokees, and
being informed of the contents of Conolly's letter to the inhabitants of
Wheeling, fell upon the Indians in Butler's second canoe, killing two; ho
also killed another Shawanese farther down the river.
•The ''Yellow Creek Massacre," as it is called, took place opposite the
mouth of Yellow Crock, April 30, 1774. It was then that Logan, the Mingo
chief, lost his relatives—mother, brother and sister; not, hewever, by "Colonel
Cresap," as he states in his famous speech, hut at the hands of a party under
the leadership of Daniel Greatheuse. Logan's brother, who was among the
slain was known as John Petty. His sister who was also killed had with
her a child two months old. It was this child that was subsequently tnken
care of by William Crawford, as previously stated.
* Neither of these letters has been preserved. St. Clair gives thirteen as
the number of Indians killed by Cresap and his men and by Greathouse and
his party; but, it must be remembered that a portion of these were Shawa
300 The St. Clair Papers.
Cresap has lately been in the neighborhood of Pittsburgh, with in
tention it appeared to pursue the blow he had before struck, but
Mr. Conolly sent a message to him forbidding him to attempt any
thing against the Indians; this he has taken in high dudgeon, and
declares publicly that what he did before was by Mr. Conolly's
orders ; so that it is to be hoped some of the devilish schemes that
have been carrying on here will come to light. I ventured to say
that an Indian war was part of the Virginia plan ; I am satisfied it
must at least be part of Mr. Conolly's plan, for he has already in
curred such an expense by repairing the fort1 and calling out the
militia that I think it is impossible that Colony will ever discharge
it unless disturbances be raised that may give his maneuvers the
appearance of necessity.
It is scarcely possible to conceive the distressed situation of this
country ; one day the spirits of the people are raised a little, and
some prospect of their being able to remain i :i their farms ; the
next a story worse than any they have heard before, and a thousand
times worse than the truth, sinks them in despair; and those about
Pittsburgh are still in a more pitiable state, being harassed and
oppressed by the militia, who lay their hands on every thing they
want without asking questions, and kill cattle at their pleasure ;
they indeed appraise them, wheu the owner happens to know of it,
and give him a bill on Lord Dunmore, which is downright mockery.
nese; so that the story tlmt thirteen Mingoes were to bo revenged for by
Logan, so current in history, is n fiction; besides, it is well known, that he
and his braves put to death more than that number of Virginians before his
wrath was appeased.
1St. Clair has here reference to Fort Pitt, which Conolly had taken pos
session of, changing the name to Fort Dunmore—which name, by the way,
was never acquiesced in by Pcnnsylvanians. After the fortification had been
dismantled by order of tho British government, in 177'2, it was taken charge
of by Edward Ward, a half-brother of Col. Croghan, whe had control ol the
grounds until Conolly with his militia took possession sometime in the spring
of 1774. In 1777, Ward's deposition was taken at Pittsburgh, a part of
which was in the following words:
"The deponent further saith that upon the evacuation*of Fort Duquesne,
by the French, on the approach of the British army General Forbes, by one
of the Deputy Agents of Indian Affairs, made a request to the chiefs of the
Six Nations for permission to re-establish a fort at the same place, for the
purpose aforesaid, and to prevent the French from returning, which was
granted; a fort executed and garrisoned, which continued in the possession
of the British troops till the year 1772, when it was evacuated by them and
taken posssession of by the deponent, who occupied the same till taken pos
session of by Major Conolly, in 177-1, with the Virginia militia."
Correspondence, Aitt tresses, Etc, 301
From what I saw it was evident to me that the country must very
soon be totally evacuated unless some thing was done to afford the
inhabitants the appearance at least of protection. I therefore con
sulted with some of the inhabitants of Pittsburgh, and Mr. Mackay,
Mr. Smith, Colonel Croghau, Mr. Butlor and myself entered into an
association to raise victuals, and pay a ranging company of one hun
dred men for one month, to which a number of the inhabitants, as I
came down, readily acceded, and I think in a few days we will have
it completed. We flattered ourselves indeed that your Honor if
you approve the measure, would take such measures with the House
as would release us from the exjxmse; but as you may probably
want a formal requisition to lay before the House, I have acquainted
you with it in another letter. One thing further I had in view : the
inhabitants of Pittsburgh propose stockading the town : 1 when that
is done should your negotiation with Lord Dunmore miscarry,
throwing a few men into that place would recover the country the
Virginians have usurped.
I beg pardon for so long a letter, and yet I believe I should have
given you more but that I am detaining Mr. [John] Montgomery,
who charges himself with forwarding this to your Honor. I have
only to request that you will please to give us your directions as
soon as possible.
P. S. —An affair that has given me much trouble and vexation
had like to have escaped my memory, the murder of a Delaware
Indian, Joseph Wipey, about eighteen miles from this place. It is
the most astonishing thing in the world the disposition of the com
mon people of this country; actuated by the most savage cruelty,
they wantonly perpetrate crimes that are a disgrace to humanity,
and seem at the same time to he under a kind of religious enthu
siasm, whilst they want the daring spirit that usually inspires. Two
of the persons concerned in this murder are John Hinkson and
James Cooper. I had got information of their design some time 1«-
fore they executed it, and had written to Hinkson, whom I knew to
be a leader amongst them, to dissuade them and threaten them
with the weight of the law if they persisted ; but so far
from preventing them, it only produced the inclosed letter.2 The
body was discovered hid in a small run of water, and covered with
stones. I immediately sent for the coroner, but before he had got
1 The town was not stockaded as proposed, although considerable work wa»
done toward it.
2This letter has not been found.
302 The kit. Clair Papers.
a jury together the body was removed, so that no inquest could be
taken. I have issued warrants on suspicion, but they are so much
on their guard I doubt they can not be executed. Your Honor will
please to consider whether it- may be proper to proclaim them ; 1 it
is most unlucky at this time. The letter may perhaps be made use
of as evidence.
Mr. McJvee had not time to transcribe the speeches of the In
dians, but in a few days I shall probably receive them, and will for
ward them by the first opportunity. Nobody offered the arrest they
have threatened me so much with.
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Penn.
Ligonter, May 29, 1774.
Sir:—The panic that has struck this country, threatening an en
tire depopulation thereof, induced me a few days ago to make an
excursion to Pittsburgh to see if it can be removed, and the deser
tion prevented.
The only probable remedy that offered was to afford the people
the appearance of some protection. Accordingly Mr. Smith, Mr.
Mackay, Mr. Butler, and some others of the inhabitants of Pitts
burgh, with Colonel Croghan and myself, entered into an association
for the immediate raising an hundred men, to be employed as a
ranging company, to cover the inhabitants in case of danger, to
which association several of the magistrates and other inhabitants
have acceded and in a very few days they will be on foot.
We have undertaken to maintain them for one month, at the rate
of one shilling and a sixpence a man per diem : this we will cheer
fully discharge, at the same time we flatter ourselves that your
Honor will approve the measure, and that the Government will not
only relieve private persons from the burden, but take effectual
measures for the safety of this frontier, and this I am desired by
the people in general to request of your Honor.
2The Governor of Pennsylvania, in accordance with the suggestion made
by St. Clair, did "proclaim them." His proclamation offering one hundred
pounds for their apprehension was dated July 28, 1774. There is, however,
no evidence extant that either were ever arrested for their supposed partici
pation in the killing of the Delaware Indian. Ilinkson finally left the
Western country.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 303
George Croghan to Arthur St. Clair.
June 4, 1774.
Sir:—The frequent reports brought from Hanna's Town, of two
hundred men being raising there, has alarmed Captain Conolly very
much, and though I told Mr. J. Campbell the whole reason and in
tention was no more than to have a number of men to scout between
the river Ohio and of inhabitants down to Ligonier, in order to pre
vent the flight of that part of said country ; and in case of great
necessity that those men would be offered to act with the Virginians
for the general defense of the country.
Now, as both Conolly and Campbell know this measure is the
only one to stay the people from flying, and see that the country
will condemn Conolly and his officers for not pursuing the same
measure, they want to make it appear in another light, and that the
intention is to invade the rights of Virginia.
Now, the greatest caution and prudence is necessary, and I re
quest that you will station those parties to scout back of the settle
ments between Turtle Creek and Ligonier, which was our intention
of having them, and take care that no threats against Virginia be
made use of by any person concerned, as, since Mr. Jo. Campbell
came up, I see the design is to create a fresh difference between Gov
ernor Penn and Lord Dunmore, which ought to be avoided with
the greatest care. Since Campbell came up affidavits are taken of
every information that is brought up, and spies employed ; though
when he was informed of the murders committed on the Indians,
he never took any measures to apprehend them. He has made two
attacks on me, by letters sent by a sergeant and twelve men, which
letters I answered, but would not gratify him to send them by his
party.
The truth is, they found this difference likely to be made up by
the Indians, and find that nothing but misrepresenting our measures,
and drawing on a fresh dispute between the Government of Penn
sylvania and Virginia, can keep this man in command ; wherefore
I have determined to go to Williamsburg myself, and represent the
state of the country, as soon as I hear the event of our last mes
sages to the Indians, by the deputies, which I believe will be in five
or six days, and I flatter myself entirely satisfactory to every wellwisher
of the peace and tranquillity of the country.
Before I go you and I must have a meeting, that you may be able
to inform the Governor what I am going about ; but I would have
you settle the scouting party so as to act with prudence, and give
304 The St. Clair Papers.
no cause for suspicion of any design against Virginia, before you
come up.
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Pestn.
Laurel Hall, June 7, 1774,
Sir:—When I had last the honor to write to you, I acquainted ou
with a plan that had been fallen upon to raise some men for the defence
of this country. The day before yesterday about forty marched
from Hanna's Town to Turtle Creek, where they would be joined
by another party. The number I do not exactly know, but it is in
tended that that post should be sixty men strong ; and a number were,
at the same time, engaged for the other necessary posts, so that the
whole will form a chain of rangers on our frontier. The subscribers
requested me to take them under my direction, and in consequence
I did give them orders which I will send to your Honor by the first
opportunity—now I have not time to copy them ; and, as I know
the gentleman who carries this, I came here on purpose to see him,
for should this matter go farther, he has connections in town that
have weight with the House. Mr. Croghan's views I do not pre
tend to see, but this you may be assured of, he is at present a friend
to this country, and if it depends on him Ave shall yet have no war;
hitherto it has been my opinion we would have no war ; I now be
gin to think otherwise ; but my reasons for thinking so depend on
such circumstances as can scarce be communicated. The most alarm
ing one, however, is the retreat of the Moravian Minister. A great
town of the Delawares has been, in some measure, civilized by these
people, and spiritual guides in all countries have ways of knowing
the intentions of their flocks ; 1 another is, that on Sunday last a
council was intended with the Dclawares and Six Nations at Mr.
Croghan's, but the day before they went off to prevent a party of
Shawanese, as they say, from falling on the white people. A little
time will show whether that was their design or not. Mr. Jennings,
the late sheriff of Northampton, who is now here, will, I believe,
be in town. It is not improbable he knows more than he discovers
to me. He is engaged in the Indian trade, and his partner is
1 Reference is here made to the Moravian missionary establishments among
the Delawares, upon the Tuscnrawns River, in what is now Tuscarawas
county, Ohio, under the charge of David Zeisberger. Rut this minister had
not " retreated," as St. Clair supposed, and his converts were still at the vil
lages of Gnadenhiitten and Schonbrunn.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 305
beloved by all the Indians. Your Honor will judge if you should
see him.
I will not give your Honor any more trouble at present ; and in
truth I am so fatigued with riding that I doubt much if what I write
is legible ; but it is necessary your Honor should be acquainted with
what is passing here, and I am not fond of sending expresses.
P. S. —In a very particular manner our soldiers are directed to
avoid every occasion of dispute with the people in the service of
Virginia.
Governor Pens to Arthur St. Clair.
Philadelphia, June ~th, 1774.
Sir:—I have received your letter of the 29th of May, by ex
press, inclosing your speech to the Indians, and think it an extra
ordinary letter. I shall consult my council upon the propriety of
issuing a proclamation for apprehending him,1 which is a measure I
dare say they will advise.
I am much pained to find your country is in so terrible a situa
tion as you represent it, and think you have acted very wisely in
entering into an association to raise men, which I hope will quiet
the minds of the people and answer the purpose of keeping them
from totally leaving the country.
You may depend upon my doing every thing that lays in my
power, to relieve you from the expense of maintaining the com
pany of men you mention. You will receive as soon as possible
two hundred muskets with powder and lead, which you will dispose
of in the best manner to such persons as will return them when
they are of no further use to them.
Those members of Assembly who live in town, approve much
of my doing every thing that may be necessary for your protection
and have sent summonses to all the members that live within twenty
miles of the town to meet on Friday next to consult upon what
will be proper to be done immediately ; and if by any further intelli
gence from your county it should appear necessary, I shall then call
the Assembly.
Wagons with the arms and ammunition will set off this after
noon or early to-morrow morning. They will be consigned to Mr.
Montgomery at Carlisle who will be desired to forward them to you.
1 Reference is lnire made to John Hinkson and James Cooper, who were
charged by St. Clair with having killed Joseph Wipey, the Delaware In
dian.
20
306 The St. Clair Papers.
Mr. Lesley luis taken the charge of packing them up aud has de
livered me the inclosed account of what he is to put up.
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Pexn.
Ligonter, June 8, 1774.
Sir : —Since I wrote to you yesterday I have received two letters 1
from Mr. Croghan, which I now inclose. Though he seems to say
that peace may be continued, I believe it is not his sentiments; and
the circumstance of his going to Williamsburg, whatever design he
may avow, is to be out of the way of danger : for he dare neither
trust the white people nor the Indians.
We have a certain account of some mischief having been done
up Cheat River. Eight or nine people are killed ; but whether it is
only designed as revenge, or is really the beginning of a war, we
can not yet judge ; 2 I shall, however take earliest opportunity to in
form you of what passes.
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Penn.
Ligonier, June 12, 1774.
Sir:—In my last letter I had the honor to inform you, that in
consequence of the ranging company which had been raised here,
there was reason to hope the people would return to their planta
tions and pursue their labors ; and for some time, that is, a few
days, it had that effect; but an idle report of Indians having been
seen within the party, has driven them every one into some little
fort or other, and many hundreds out of the country altogether.
This has obliged me to call in the parties from where they were
1Only one of these letters—that of June 4, 1774, previously given —has
been preserved.
2 It was both, as it proved. The "mischief spoken of was the work of
Logan, the Mingo chief, in revenge for the killing oi his relatives al Baker's
liottom, opposite the mouth of Yellow Creek, on the 30th of April previous.
It was on Dunkiml's Creek, ubout ten miles from the mouth of Client Kiver,
on the west side of the Munongnheln, that the irate chief began his work of
death—began, in fact, "Lord DunmoiVs War." Logan had with him a
small number of Mingocs and Shawanese from "W'akatomiea, an Indian
town upon the Muskingum, near what is now Dresden, .Muskingum county,
Ohio. At this time, about ten persons were killed. The whole country was
in forts; that is, what was left of them on either side of the Monongahcla—
the greater part having gone over the mountains for safety.
Comspondcnce, Addi esses, etc. CC7
posted, and have stationed them, twenty men at the Bullock Pens,
twenty men at Turtle Creek, thirty at Hauna's Town, twenty at
Proctor's, and twenty at Ligonier; as these places are now the fron
tier towards the Alleghany, all that great country betwixt the mad1
and that river being totally abandoned, except by a few who arc as
sociated with the people who murdered the Indians, and are shut up
in a small fort on Connymack [Conemaugh], equally afraid of the
Indians and officers of justice.
Nothing can be more surprising than the dread the people are
under, and it is truly shameful that so great a body of people should
have been driven from their possessions without even the appear
ance of an enemy ; for certain it is, as yet, no attempt has been
made on what is understood to be Pennsylvania, nor any other
mischief dine than the killing the family on Whitelick Creek, which
I informed you of before, and which, from every circumstance, ap
pears rather to have been private revenge than a national stroke.
A fresh report of Indians being seen near Hannn's Town, and
another party on Braddock's Road, set the people agoing again yes
terday. I immediately took horse and rode up to inquire, aud found
it, if not totally groundless, at' least very improbable; but it was
impossible to persuade the people so, and I am certain I did not
meet less than a hundred families, and I think two thousand head
of cattle, in twenty miles riding.
The people in this valley still make a stand ; but yesterday they
all moved into this place, and I perceive are much in doubt what to
do. Nothing in my power to prevent their leaving the country
shall be omitted, but if they will go I suppose i must go with the
stream. It is the strangest infatuation ever seized upon men ; and
if they go off now, as harvest will soon be on, they must undoubt
edly perish by famine, for spring crop there will be little or none.
By a letter from Mr. Mackay, of yesterday, I had a very extra
ordinary piece of intelligence, " that Lord Dunmore had empow
ered Mr. Conolly to settle a line of jurisdiction with the Pennsyl
vania magistrates." This, it seems, he gives out himself, but it is
too absurd to be believed. It would give much pleasure to the
friends of Government in this part of the country, to hear that
1The two principal roads leading out of Pittsburgh, at that (late, eastward,
were " Forbes' Road" and ' Braddock's Road." Leaving Fort Pitt by the
fist-mentioned mute, the traveler would reach the Bullock Pens, in seven
miles; Hannastown, is something over thirty; Ligonier, in fifty-six; and
Bedford, in about one hurdred miles. It was this road that St. Clair refers
to. Braddock's Road wa« to the south of this.
308 The St. Clair Papers.
your commissioners had succeeded in that business, as it seems to
be the only thing that can restore us peace and order.1 '
A very little time will discover the intentions of the Indians, and
if they shoilld proceed to further hostilities, I will give you notice
by express, if it appears to be necessary.
P. S.—I have just heard that Mr. Conolly has sent a party of
militia down to Wheeling, with orders to fall on every Indian they
meet, without respecting friend or foe.2
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Penv.
Ligonier, June 16th, 1774.
Sir:—There is very little alteration in the afTairs of this coun
try since my last, which was a few days ago, only we have a certain
account of two more people being killed by the Indians, one Mr.
McClure, and Kincaid, the person for whom you lately issued a
special commission of the peace. They, it seems, were leading a
party of forty men to join Capt. Conolly at Wheeling, and were
attacked by four Indians who made their escape without so much
as being fired at.2
Before this accident Mr. Conolly had determined to march from
•On the 12ih day of .May, 1774, James Tilghman and Andrew Allen,
commissioners of Pennsylvania, appointed to meet Lord Dunmore for a con
ference with regard to the Boundary Troubles, left Philadelphia, and arrived
in Williamsburg on the 19th following. The business was soon opened;
but, after a conference which lasted until the 27th of that month, it ended in
nothing whatever being accomplished; Lord Dunmore declaring that in no
event would lie yield jurisdiction over Fort Pitt, which put an end to the
meeting. St. Clair, however, had not received, at the date of the above let
ter, information of the failure of the commission.
1 Particulars of the mishap which befel this party are given by St. Clair,
in his letter to Penn, of June 16, 1774, which follows.
8 " JuneI3th [1774], We have this morning received Certain accounts
from Ten-Mile Creek, (which Empties into the Monongahela ten miles above
Redstone Fort) that on the 11th Inst. Francis McClure was killed &one Sam
uel Kinkade badly wounded. These men were heading a Party in Pursuit
of Logan, McClure as Captain & Kinkade Lieut., and Owcing to their bad
Conduct, they advanced some considerable distance ahead of their men and
were discovered by Logan, when the Party came up they found their Captn
kill'd & Lieut wounded; part of them stayed to take care of the wounded,
and the Rest pursued the Indians." —Drverenx Smith to . From this
it would seem that St. Clair was mistaken in supposing the party were
marching to join Conolly at Wheeling.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 309
Ft. Pitt, (which he now calls Ft. Dunmore,) with three or four hun
dred men he had embodied for the purpose of chastising the Shawanese,
to erect forts at Wheeling1 and Hockhocking2 to overawe
the Indians and from thence to carry war into their own country;
of this he was pleased to inform me by letter,3 and to desire I
would act in concert with him. You may be assured, sir, I shall
be cautious of taking any step that may have the most distant
tendency to draw this Province into active share in the war they
have had no hand in kindling, but I have since received accounts
that the above murders instantly changed the plan, and Mr. Couolly
remains in garrison.
'Tis said some of his parties discovered a very large party of In
dians crossing the Ohio below Wheeling. If that be true, as it is
not improbable, we may expect soon to hear of much mischief be
ing done, as there is not the least doubt of several small parties
being out at this time.
Tis some satisfaction the Indians seem to discriminate betwixt us
and those who attacked them, and their revenge has fallen hitherto
on that side of the Monongahela, which they consider as Virginia,'
but lest that should not continue, we are hiking all possible care
to prevent a heavy stroke falling on the few people who are left in
this country. Forts at different places so as to be more convenient,
are now nearly completed, which gives an appearance of security
for the women and children, and with the ranging parties, which
have been drawn in to preserve the communication, has in a great
degree put a stop to the unreasonable panic that had seized them,
but in all of them there is a great scarcity of ammunition, and sev
eral messengers have returned from below without being able to
purchase.
I am very anxious to know whether the ranging companies are
agreeable to your honor or not, both because the expense of con
tinuing them will be too heavy for the subscribers, and that I am
every day pressed to increase them. This I have positively re
fused to do till I receive your Honor's instructions, and I well know
how averse our Assemblies have been formerly to engage in the dc1
The- site of the present city of that name, in "West Virginia.
2The Hockhocking (frequently written Hocking) enters the Ohio River on
the right, in the present State of Ohio, two hundred and three miles by course
of the latter stream below Pittsburgh.
3 It is a matter of regret that this letter has not been found. In the end,
the plan mentioned was carried out
• That is, on the west side.
310 The St. Clair Papers.
fense of the frontiers, and if they fire still of the same disposition,
the circumstance of the white people being the aggressors will
afford them a topic to ring the charges on and conceal their real
sentiments.
Last night I received petitions from several different parts of the
county, which I have now the honor to transmit to you by Doctor
McKenzie from Pittsburgh.1 The disturbance in this country has
ruined his business, but should the Province think of raising
1 Two, only, of the Petitions have been found, but this is a mutter of lit
tle importance, as it will be seen by the following that they were all sub
stantially alike: M
" Pittsbi;egh, 14M June, 1774. '•To the Honourable John Penn, Esq'r, Governour and Commander in
Chief of the Province of Pennsylvania, and of the Counties of Newcastle,
Kent, and Sussex upon Delaware. The Petition of the Inhabitants of
Westmoreland County, Humbly Sheweth,
"That there is the greatest Reason to apprehend that this part of the
Country will be immediately involved in all the horrors of an Indian War,
That our Circumstances at this Critical Conjuncture, are truly alarming.
Deserted by the tar greater part of our neighbours and fellow subjects, un
provided with places of strength to resort to, with Amunitions, Provisions,
and almost every other necessary Store, Our houses are abandoned to pillage,
Labour and Industry entirely at a stand. Our Crops destroyed by Cattle,
Our (locks dispersed, and the minds of our people distracted with the terrors
of falling, along with their helpless and unprotected families, the immediate
victims of Savage Barbarity.
"In the midst of these scenes of Desolation and ruin, next to the Al
mighty, we look up to your Honour, hoping from your known Benevolence
and Humanity, such Protection and Relief as to your Honour shall seem
meet.
'And your Petitioners as in Duty bound will Pray. ^Eneas Mackay,
Devereux Smith, William Butler, James O'Hara, Samuel McKenzie, John
Ormsby. John McCallister, Andrew Robeson. Edward Thompson, William
Evins, William McClellan, William I.ea, Frederick Fenny, John Henery,
Christopher Miller, John Stewart, Richard Carson, David Sample, Thomas
Galbraith, William Elliott, Ar. St. Clair, James Pollock, Benjamin Setter,
James Carnahan, John Chillton, John Carnahan, Peter Eekley, Edward
Murray, William JleConnell, James Kyll, Benjamin Coe, Joseph Kyll.
John Work. Robert Patterson, Reuben Powell, Peter Coe, Michael Huflnagle,
Abel Fisher, and others."
[II]
" Fokt Shipen, at Cav'n John Proctors.
"To the Honorable John Penn, Esquire, Governour and Commander in
chief of the Province of Pennsylvania, and Counties of New Castle, Kent,
and Sussex upon Delaware. The Petition of the Inhabitants of Westmor
land County Iluml ly Sheweth,
Correspondence, AUdnsses, Etc. 311
troops, he would be glad I believe to be employed. I can, sir,
recommend him to your Honor, as an expert surgeon and gentle
manly man. He has served as surgeon in the navy.
I was mistaken in saying two people were killed on Ten Mile
Creek: McClure was killed, and Kinkaid wounded; however, it
would have been no great matter if ho had been killed, as he had
accepted a commission in the service of Virginia, soon after the
notice you had been pleased to take of him at the request of his
father-in law, Col. Wilson. I am afraid there arc some more of
our Virginia friends who do not play us fair, but it is not a time at
present for purgation.
Unless your Honor should forbid me, I shall continue to write
to you in this manner, whatever occurs, as it is the only way I
have at present to show you that I .am with the greatest respect,
your obedient servant.
P. S. —For auy thing that has escaped me, I take the liberty to
refer you to Doctor McKensie.
The day before yesterday I had a visit from Major Ward. He
informs me that Mr. Croghan set out for Williamsburg the day be
fore, to represent the distresses he says of the people of this coun
try. At the same time he informed me that the Delawares had got
notice of the murder of Wipey, and that Mr. Croghan had desired
him to come to me on that occasion ; that he advised that they
"That thero is great Reason to rear that this part of the Country will
soon be involved in an Indian War That the Consequences will most
probably be very striking ; as the Country is in a very defenceless state,
without any Places of Strength, or any Stock of Amunition or Necessary
Stores.
"That the abandoning the Country, must be attended with total Ruin to
great numbers who arc now in an easy Situation, but almost distracted with
the apprehension of seeing their Helpless Infants (all a Sacrifice to Savage
Cruelty, and this will certainly be the event unless they meet with some
protection.
"In these Circumstances, next to the Almighty, they look up to your
Honour, and hope you will tako their Case into Consideration, and afford
them such Relief as to your Honour shall seem meet.
"And your Petitioners as in duty bound will Pray.
"Lot Darling, Andrew Woolf, Gorg Hedingbau, Samuel Sloan, "William
Caldwell, Kobcrt Roulston, William Allison, "William Cortny, John l'atriek,
Benjamin Coohra, James Gammel, James Forsyth, Robert .Taylor,
John Leslie, William Anderson, George Henry. John Proctor, David -Max
well, Will'am Hughs, Ilias Peltet, and others.''
312 The St. Clair Papers.
should be spoken to and some small present made to them as con
dolence and to cover his bones, as they express it. I do not well
know what to do ; such a present as some few of us would be
willing to contribute for, might be thought unworthy of the Province,
and such an one as might come up to my idea, would he great pre
sumption to offer. This however is certain, the Delawares are still
friendly and it may perhaps prevent a general war if they can be
kept in temper. I believe I shall go to Ft. Pitt, however, and will
consider well of it.
vEneas Maceay to Arthur St. Clair,
Pittsburgh, llth June, 1774.
My Dear Sir:—I have the pleasure to inform you that Butler,1
Blain,2 and several other traders, are just arrived with their skins,
guarded by three Shawauese chief's, and our greatest dread is now
that the militia will attempt to kill or otherwise abuse these princi
pal men, as they are so easy to come at; however we have some
trusty hands to lead them through the woods to Col. Croghan's, which
we look upon to be a place of safety. The traders inform us that
they have not been under confinement at all, and that they have
been exceedingly well treated by all the Shawanesc.2 We will have
no war yet, unless our neighbors will force them to it.
1 Richard liutler. He, in company with his brother William, whs engaged
as a trader, ut this period, with the Shawanesc. They had been doing u large
business for n number of years, from Pittsburgh. It may be here mentioned
that these brothers took an important part in the Revolution, and that Richard
was a Major-General in the Indian war which followed that contest.
2 Ephraim Iilaine.
* Richard Butler, after his arrival at Pittsburgh, gave an interesting ac
count of his escape- from the Indian country. It was in substance this: On
henring the news of the killing ol the Mingoes by Greathouse and his party
at Baker's Bottom, on tho 30th of April, three men and a boy, who were
Mingoes, and one Shawanese, set off to tho Hockhocking, with an intent to
revenge the deed upon the traders there. On bearing of this, the Shawa
nese bead men sent four of their own people nnd one Mohican to preserve
Butler and the residue of the traders at that point. This was faithfully done;
for when the war party came to tho camp of tho Pennsylvanians, they were
met 1 y the others, whe prevailed on them to return home. AVhen Butler
and the other traders were ready to start for Pittsburgh, tho Shawanese
chief, Cornstalk, sent his brother to escort the whole of tl.em to Pittsburgh,
although, before they left, the report that Logan and his friends had taken
up the batehet against the Virginians in revengo for his relatives slain,
reached the Shawanese before their departure. The Indian escort, composed
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 313
P. S. —Mr. Butler informs me, he has a speech for the inhabitants
of the forks of the Two Iiivers, meaning our Province; and Blain has
a speech to deliver to Mr. Connolly as representative for the Big
Knife, so that 1 hope you will be up before the speeches will be de
livered.4
James Tilghman to Arthur St. Clair.
Philadelphia, June 20th, 1774.
Sir : —The Governor has received your dispatches by Mr. Hooper
and Mr. Jacobs who had by packet from Mr. Elder. I just take this
opportunity by a person going off to-day, to let you know that we
could not bring my Lord Dunmore to any reasonable temporary
lines. We offered the Monongahcla which he would not agree to ;
so that the peace and quiet of the country must in a great measure
depend on the confidence of those in command on both sides till we
can get orders from home to have the boundaries of Penn'a settled,
which Lord Dunmore assured us he would use every endeavor to
expedite. I find you have raised some rangers to encourage the
people to continue their settlements; great care should be taken that
they give uo offense or umbrage to the Indians, who should be
made sensible that nothing is intended, but to keep the people to
the settlements, unless the Indians should' oblige them to act of
fensively. It seems as if there were no good understanding between
Croghan and Connolly. I do not know how sincere Croghan may
be, nor would I judge uncharitably, but his sentiments are just.
We had some intimation when at Williamsburg and I have
heard since I came home that Lord Dunmore has interested himself
in the lands about Pittsburgh. I wish you would inquire into that
of one Shawanese, one Mingo and u Mohican, proved faithful to their trust
and delivered their charges in safety at Pittsburgh.
The fears of Mnckuy that the militia would "attempt to kill or otherwise
abuse" the three Indians, were well-rounded. It required great raution and
considerable trouble on the part of the traders and Colonel Croghan to pro
tect them, so intense was the excitement among the Virginians at Pittsburgh
against savages in general at the time. On their way home, the Mohican
was actually wounded, near the mouth of Beaver, by a scouting party; how
ever, it is not certain that they had knowledge of the pacific intention of
these Indians.
*The speech brought in by Butler has not been found. The one intrusted
to Blaine was directed to Croghan and Conolly. It was from the chief,
Cornstalk. Ho sent his good intentions to the Governors of Pennsylvania
and Virginia; hoped that peace would be maintained, and that no more In
diana would be killed. r
314 The St. Clair Papers.
matter, and transmit me what intelligence you 'can gain of it.
The Governor will write you by the first opportunity. He is out of
town to-day and knows not of this.
Conolly wrote Lord Dunmore a very flattering account of his ex
pedition against the court house for which we are informed he got
a sharp reprimand instead of the applause he expected. When we
applied for the discharge of the magistrates his Lordship told us
he had already given orders for that purpose.
Lord Dunmore told us he would instruct his people to be very
pacific and inoffensive, and not to give an occasion of difference.
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Pe>n.
Ligonier, June 22, 1774.
Sir:—In my last I informed you of Mr. Croghan setting out for
Williamsburg, since which I had a letter from him from his own
house. He therein informed me that he found the country so much
alarmed at his going down, that he chose to return, and trust his
business to letters, and desired to see me as soon as possible.
Accordingly I set out for Pittsburgh the 17th inst. , and had the
happiness to find two of the principal traders arrived there with a
great quantity of peltry, and that they had been conducted there
by some of the Shawanese chiefs, aud that the rest of the traders,
with their horses and skins, were got as far as the Newcomer's
Town, under the protection of another Shawanese party.
The traders inform us that they have met with no ill treatment
from the Shawanese ; but, on the contrary, they were at the great
est pains, to protect them from the Mingoes, who had suffered most
from the white people, and who came to their town several times,
with the intention to murder them. It seems they did not think it
prudent to bring the Shawanese to Pittsburgh, but conducted them
from some distance below that place, through the woods to Colonel
Croghan's. Mr. Conolly ordered out a party of forty men to make
them prisoners, as he says.
The people of the town were alarmed at seeing a party march out
the route they took, and suspected they were intended to attack a
partv of our people stationed at the Bullock Pens, about seven
miles from thence, which it seems has some time been threatened,
and acquainted me with what they feared. I immediately waited
on Mr. Conolly, and insisted, in direct terms, he should tell me if
he had any such design. He assured me he had not, but that, as
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 315
the Shawanese had committed depredations on his Majesty's subjects,
he had ordered out that party to make those prisoners who had
escorted the traders ; and that might have been his real intention ;
but I am convinced those who were to put it in execution would not
have made prisoners. We put it out of their power to do either, by
sending them over the river.
Your Honor will judge from this circumstance that the crew about
Fort Pitt (now Fort Dunmore), are intent on a war, for were not
that the case, honor, generosity, gratitude, every manly principle,
must have prompted them to be kind, and afford protection to those
poor savages, who had risked their own lives to preserve the lives
and property of their fellow-subjects. But why need I mention this
circumstance? One at least as strong is, that John Drinning, who
publicly acknowledged, or rather boasted, of having killed the In
dians, with Mr. Cresap, is one of Mr. Conolly's lieutenants, and is
at the present time out somewhere with the command of a party to
take scalps, from friends I suppose ; a murderer, I am sure, will
never meet an enemy on fair terms.
I mentioned something of a condolence in my last, and as the
Shawanese were up, I suffered myself to be pursuaded by Mr. Croghan
to collect a small present of goods for that purpose, which was
on Sunday morning to have been divided and sent to the three na
tions, the Six Nations, Shawanese, and Delawares ; but Mr. Con
nolly's frolic prevented it that day. Next morning, the Indians,
being some Six Nations, and some Delawares, were brought down
to Mr. Croghan's, and were shown the condolence, and acquainted
that it was ordered for them by you, and that when their chiefs
arrived they would be spoken to, and the present delivered, and a
messenger was sent after the Shawanese to acquaint them likewise.
As the Indians themselves made a distinction betwixt us and our
neighbors, it may perhaps he a means of keeping peace in our quar
ter at least. I hope your Honor will not be offended nt my taking
this upon myself. The value of the goods is but trifling, not ex
ceeding thirty or forty pounds. I have inclosed a list of them, but
the person from whom I got them neglected to affix the prices.
Whatever may Ie: Mr. Croghan's real views, I am certain he is
hearty in promising the general tranquillity of the country; indeed,
he is indefatigable in endeavoring to make up the breaches, and
does, I believe, see his mistake in opposing the interests of your
Government; and I doubt not but a very little attention would
render him as serviceable as ever. Real friendship you must not ex
pect, for, by his interest alone he is regulated, yet he may be useful,
316 The St. Clair Papers.
as by and by you will probably want to make another purchase. I
purposely gave him an opportunity of opening a correspondence
with me, which he embraced, and from what I can see, he would be
glad to be on better terms with your officers than he has been ; but
this is only conjecture.
With this, your Honor will receive an extract from Mr. McKce's
journal of all the transaction* with the Indians, from the beginning
of the troubles, as also another of Mr. Connolly's advertisements.1
I know not well what he means by it, but I believe his design is to
distress the Indian trade.
It is true what I mentioned about the boundary. Mr. Connolly
read me a part of a letter from Lord Dunmore on the subject. He
says the demands of the Pennsylvania^ were so extravagant that
he could do nothing with them, but that he (Connolly) may settle
a line of jurisdiction with the magistrates of Westmoreland, ten
or twelve miles eastward of Pittsburgh, or a more convenient dis
tance, and cautions him at the same time not to give just cause of
offense to the magistrates acting under the authority of this Province.
I know not how the magistrates were to settle lines.
I received your Honor's favor of 7th inst., and am happy to
inform you the panic is in some measure over. The ammunition has
not yet come to hand, but a quantity arrived from Carlisle which
eased the people's minds a little, but the damage to the country by
the desertion of the people and the loss of the Spring crop is very
great, and if any thing should happen to interrupt the harvest we
must have an absolute famine. This I hope will not be the case.
Logan is returned with thirteen scalps and a prisoner, and says
he will now listen to the chiefs.2
1Onolly's advertisement wns in these words:
"Whereas the Shawanese have perpetrated several murders upon the. Inhabitants
of this Country which has involved this promising Settlement in
the moit calamitous distress; and whereas I have good reason to believe
that certain imprudent people continue to curry on a correspondence with,
and supply the said Enemies with dangerous Commodities to the infinite
prejudice of His Majesty's subjects, and expressly contrary to an Act of As
sembly prohibiting such unwarrantable intercourse: These are therefore in
His Majesty's Name, strictly to require and command all His Majesty's
Subjects, to take notice hereof and to deport themselves as the law directs,
as they may be assured that a contrary conduct will draw on them the
utmost severity thereof.
"Given under my Hand at Fort Dunmore this 18th June, 1774.
John Conolly.''
2 It has been taken for granted that he did so listen, and that he then
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 317
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Penn.
Ligonier, June 26<A, 1774.
Sir:—I have the honor to transmit a memorial from the inhabit
ants of Pittsburgh to your Honor, with some remarks upon Mr.
Conolly's conduct in support of it, which came to my hands a few
minutes ago.1 It is most certain, sir, they are most injuriously
buried the hatchet, having slain just as nmny of the "Long Knives" as the
Virginians killed of Mingoes. But his rest was only temporary: he after
ward penetrated a considerable distance into Virginia—he and his brave*
killing as they went. Up to the last of June, or to the time of the date of
the above letter, he had already taken sixteen scalps.
1 The following are the Memorial and Remarks referred to by St. Clair:
[Memorial.] i. PiTTsnvon, June. 25, 1774.
"To the Honorable John Penn, Esq., Governor and joint Proprietor of tbo
Province of Pennsylvania, etc. '•The memorial of the subscribers, in behalf of themselves and the re
maining few inhabitants of Pitt-burgh who have adhered to the Governor
of Pennsylvania, humbly sheweth: That your memorialists have suffered in
an unprecedented manner by the arbitrary proceedings of Doctor Conolly,
sinci; the commencement of his tyrannical Government at Pittsburgh. The
principal facts we shall beg leaveto lay before your Honor, as followeth: Soon
after the return of the magistrates of this place from Staunton jail in Vir
ginia, Mr. Conolly being extremely enraged that Mr. Mackay should ac
quaint Lord Dunmore with bis tyrannical behavior, took all opportunities to
affront and use Sir. Mackay ill, so that in a few days after he ordered Mr.
Maekay's outheuses to be pulled down, and the materials to be carried to his
garrison; and when Mr. Mackay complained of such oppressive measures,
he was threatened by Doctor Conolly to be sent in irons to Williamsburg.
" Mr. William Butler, (one of the subscribers,) and an eminent trader at
this place, has been cruelly treated by Mr. Conolly, nay, was threatened to
be shot down, for daring to refuse carrying arms at Mr. Conoliy's militia
array, etc. That your memorialists are of opinion that Mr. Conolly has
taken all the pains in his power to foment the disturbance between us and
the Indians, for several reasons, particularly when a number of the traders
arrived here lately from the Shawanese towns, escorted by three Shawanese
chiefs, who were sent to the care of Colonel Croghan, till a handsome
present was made for them, by the traders for their fidelity, Doctor Conolly
ordered out forty-one of his militia to take them at all events, and to send
them to his guard house, which hellish plot being discovered, .Mr. Butler, and
some other friends, conveyed the Indians and their presents over the river,
just as the guards surrounded Mr. Croghan's bouse, for which Mr. Butler
has been severely threatened.
"That a number of the subscribers, etc., have been very severely treated
318 The St. Clair Papers.
treated. The only piece of news from above, since my last, is,
that Mr. Conolly sent two parties down the river in pursuit of the
Shawauese who escorted the traders, who. intercepted them at Beaver
by -Mr. Conolly fur our adherence to the Pennsylvania Government, which,
fur brevity sake, must be omitted.
"The premises considered, your memorialists most earnestly request your
Honor will f:iil upon some speedy method to relieve our distresses, and to
send us directions, as soon as possible, bow to act on this very critical occa
sion.
" Kor a further explanation of our distresses we beg leave to refer your
Honor to the enclosed remarks, which are absolute facts.
".-Eneas Mackay, Frederick F'any, William Evans, Devereux Smith, Rob
ert McCully, William Amberson, John Ormsby, George McCully, William
Hamilton, Richard Butler, John Shannon, James Smith, William Butler,
Gabriel Walker, John Irwin, James O'Hara, John. Walker, Robert Elli
ott, James Fowler, Benjamin Elliott, Richard Carson, Joseph Spear, Al
exander Wayue, Joseph Carrel, Andrew Robinson, Ralph Nailer, Stephen
Groves."
[Remares.]
" PiTTSBi'RaH, June 25r7», 1774.
"The Distress'd Inhabitants of this Place have just cause to Charge their
present Calamity & Dread of an Indian War, Intirely to the Tyrannical
and mi precedent Conduct of Doctor John Connolly, whoso design, as we
conceive, is to better his alrrost desperate Circumstances upon the distress
of the publick and the Ruin of our Fortunes, as will appear (mm the fol
lowing Facts :
" 1st. On the 'Joth day of January last, a number of disorderly persons as
sembled themselves here in Consequence of his advertisements, (as militia)
whe, when dispersing, wantonly or maliciously fired upon some Iriendly In
dians, in their Hutts on the Indian Shore, which Conduct, together with So
unexpected an Ap, earanoeof so many People in Arms at a time, that they
ex| cited no Hostile Infntion on our parts, greatly alarmed them, as ap
peared by Complaint made by them at a Council with Alexander Mc [Kee],
Ks'|' r, Indian Agent, and some of the Inhabitants of this Place, a few days
alter.
"2ndly. Michael Cresip[Cresap].in vindication of his own Conduct, alledges
that it was in Consequence of a Circular Letter from said Connolly, directed
to the Inhab.tants of the Ohio, that be murthered the Indians, and that in a
mui.ner that Savage Ferocity could scarce equal & in Cold Blood, without
the le i.-t Provocation, amongst whom was some Delawares that had been
employed by Mr. William Butler to Carry Goods & tend to the Relief of
his brothers, who was at that time in the Indian Country, all of which prop
erty they have been deprived of to a Considerable amount; also, every part
of said Connolly's conduct to our friendly Indians convinces us that he
menus to force them to a war, as he both Refuses to protect & endeavors to
murder these that, at the Risque of their lives Came with our Traders to
p-otect them & to deliver assurances to the publick, which can be produced
if required.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 319
Creek, fired on them, and wounded one, and then ran off in the
most dastardly manner. What may he the consequence God knows,
but it is well if the traders do not suffer; their horses and peltry
are not yet arrived.
"3dly. A large body of Armed men broke open Mr. McKay's & Mr.Smitlis
Back-yard Gates & Rescued the Villiau Welly, who was sworn constable for
Westmoreland County at that time, and was confined for abusing said Mc
Kay in his own House; five; of those men presented their Guns at Mr. Mc
Kay & Mr. Smith, also one of the Party struck at Mr. McKay with bis
Gun and broke it into pieces, whilst another presented his rifle through his
Parlour window, Swearing that he would shoot down Mrs. McKay if she
did not immediately set open the doors of her House, ujion which she fled,
but was Immediately assaulted by one Aston (a Caj tain in sad Connolly's
Appointment) with a drawn Sword, whe stabbed her in the Arm. Mr.
Spear was also Abused & Scratched by said Aston, at the same time.
'••Hlily. Said Connolly, with an Armed force of two hundred men, sur
rounded the Cc urt House, &c , &c.
"uthly. He sent YEneas McKay, Devereux Smith, & Andrew MeFarlane,
Magistrates, under an Armed Guard to Stan town [Staunton] jail, in Vir
ginia, then proceeded to shoot down our Cattle, Sheep and Hogs, takeing by
force of Anns any part of our property he pleases, also Pressing our Horses
without applying for them or rendering any satisfaction to the sufferers for
so doing.
"(itbly. He sent an Armed Guard to Town to Plunder the House of Mr.
Devereux Smith, but was prevented by -Mr. William Butler, at the Risque
of bis li(e.
"7thly. He, Connolly, with bis whole Force came to the House of Mr.
McKay & Broke open bis Gates, & Pulled down a Log Stable & Sheep
house, threatening to Pull down bis Dwelling House if he theught proper;
be came again, accompanied by one of his Officers, to Mr. McKays &
abused him in a Blasphemous, outrageous manner, threatening to send him
in Irons to Virginia, next day.
'•8thly. He sent an Armed Guard to Town, with a General Search War
rant, to search every House in Town, without Exception, for the Effects of
amon that died the evening before in their Fort, that some of themselves had
Robbed his Corpse off. In the Course of their Search they Broke Open a
Chest in a Mans hrnise, that bears a Good Character here, and took out sev
eral Articles, and at the same time Insulted the owner.
"'Jthly. He sent a party who Robbed Mr. Joseph Spears's Carriers of Oni
Horse load of Gun Powder about Six miles from Town, which was sent bj
said Spear for the use of the Inhabitants of this Country, if necessity re
quired; thus Robbery was committed by a Party beaded by the afloresaii -
Aston who beat and Insolently abused the Person who had said Powder in
Cliarce, when he Demanded a Receipt for the same.
"These are but a few of the many Distresses we labour under, and with
out Protection & Speedy Redress, cannot long support ourselves under
such Greiveous Persecution & Tyranny "
320 The St. Clair Papers.
Mr. MeFarlane has just arrived from Virginia, and reports that
four companies are on their march to Pittsburgh. I think he must
be mistaken, both as their militia law is expired, and that it is not
an easy matter to conduct so large a body through au uninhabited
country, where no magazines are established. Any occurrences
worthy of your nutiee shall be intimated by every opportunity.
Governor Penn to Arthur St. Clair.
Philadelphia, June 28, 1774.
Sir : —The accounts which you have transmitted of the temper of
the Indians, and the murders they have already perpetrated, are
truly alarming, and give every reason to apprehend that we shall
not long be exempt from the calamities of a savage war. The de
sertion of that country in consequence of the panic which has seized
the inhabitants, on this occasion, must be attended with the most
mischievous effects, and prove ruinous to the immediate sufferers,
and distressing to the Province in general. Every measure, there
fore, should bo attempted to stop the progress of this evil, and to
induce those who have already gone off, to return to their habita
tions; and, I must rely on you to exert all your prudence and ac
tivity fir this purpose. The steps which have already been taken
appear to me very proper, and I have no doubt, but that you will
continue your endeavours to restore the drooping spirits of the peo
ple, and inspire them with a resolution to stand their ground, at
least till they arc satisfied of the intentions of the Indians towards
this Province. You may assure thom that Government sensibly
feels the distresses of their situation—that it will be attentive to
their interests, and affjrd them every assistance and protection in
its power to give. With this disposition, I have issued writs for
convening the Assembly, on the 18th of next month ; and shall
immediately on their meeting, lay this matter before them, and
have reason to expect that such measures will be adopted as may
effectually enable the Government to extend to them a relief, ade
quate to its wishes, and their wants. In the mean time I shall give
orders fir such further supply of ammunition to be sent up as will
be sufficient for the present occasion.
I have written to Sir William Johnson, informing him of the in
telligence we had received of these transactions, and requesting his
interposition with the Six Nations, to use their influence with the
Shawanese and Delawares, to prevent further hostilities on their
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 321
part, and to assure them of the sincere intentions of this Govern
ment to continue their pacific disposition towards all our Indian
brethren. I have also written to Lord Dunmore, complaining of
Conolly's outrageous and tyrannical behavior at Pittsburgh, and re
presenting the dangerous tendency his military operations may have
to involve the Colonies in a general Indian War.
P. S. —My Commissioners who attended Lord Dunmore, could
not induce him to come into any reasonable temporary line of juris
diction, and therefore things must remain in the disagreeable situa
tion of interfering jurisdictions. In this unhappy situation I am
satisfied, you and the other magistrates will act a prudent part. It
is impossible in such a case to give particular directions. With re
spect to the keeping up the rangers you have raised for the security
of the inhabitants, I shall recommend it to the Assembly to defray
the expense that shall accrue in that necessary measure ; and I can
not have the least doubt that they will approve of what has been
done on this occasion, as also the continuance of the same forces,
until their sentiments can be known.
R. L. Hooper to Arthur St. Clair.
[No date.] 1
Dear Sir :—Yesterday I forwarded three letters for you by Mr.
Ross3 of Pittsburgh, and now I am in hopes of sending you the re
solves of council last evening which was held in consequence of
your letters, etc., by Doctor McKinney. I have hunted Mr. Tilghman
faithfully to day, but can not meet with him. I am now going
in search of him to get the Governor's letter for you; but I will first
tell you that the Assembly is called to meet the 18th of next month,
and a considerable quantity of powder and lead is ordered to be sent
up immediately ; and this is all—except the full approbation of your
conduct—and it gave me great pleasure to hear one of the gentlemen
of the council express his sentiments of you on this occasion. I
think there does not remain a doubt but your measures will be adopted
by the Governor and Assembly, and your requests fully answered, but
]The letter, by referring to the time when the Assembly of Pennsylvanin
was to meet, shows that it was written some time in June, 1774.
2Alexander Koss. He was, for a number of years, engaged largely in
trade with the Indians from Pittsburgh, in connection with Alexander
McKee. He was, on the 11th of January, 1774, commissioned a justice of
the peace of Westmoreland County, Pennsylvania, as previously indicated. 21 ...
322 The St. Clair Papers.
the delaying time must be of very bad consequence to the country. I
intend to take up a certain Bond if I can, but as yet, I have not
had it in my power. I shall be ready on every occasion to serve you
and the inhabitants. You know I am diligent and active, and per
haps you may have it in your power to turn the eyes of these peo
ple on me. I have had frequaint conversation with Mr. Tilghman,
who is friendly.
I have just seen Doctor Smith who says an express is to be sent
off to you. I can not find the Secretary—he is attending the balL
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Penn.
Ligonier, July 4th, 1774.
Sir:—I have the honor to inclose the last piece of Indian
Intelligence, which came by Captain White Eyes a few days ago,
and am very happy that affairs have so peaceable an aspect,1 yet
I can not suppress my fears that it will soon be interrupted, as a
large body of Virginians are certainly in motion. Colonel Henry
Lewis is ordered to the mouth of Kenhawa to build a fort there ;
and Major McDonald with about five hundred, is to march up Braddocks
road and down to Wheeling to build another there ; and Cresap,
with three others, are appointed to raise ranging companies. With
such officers as Cresap, no good can be expected, so that it is very
doubtful all attempts to preserve the tranquillity of the country
will be fruitless.'1
1The intelligence brought by White Eyes was, in effect, that he was re
turned from transacting the business which ho had been sent upon by his
brethren, the English j and that he now had the satisfaction to tell them that
he had succeeded in his negotiations with all those tribes of the several nations
of Indians whom he had since seen and conferred with, upon the unhappy
disturbances which unfortunately had arisen in the Spring between the fool
ish people of both parties, and that he had found all the nations fully dis
posed to adhero to their ancient friendship and the advice of their wise
men.
2 In n proclamation issued by Lord Dunmore, April 25, 1774, he recognized
that Pittsburgh and its dependencies were " in some danger of annoyance
from the Indians," and he ordered and required " the officers of the militia
in that district to embody a sufficient number of men to repel any insult
whatever," referring not only to the Indians, but to the Boundary Troubles
as well.
Early in May, William Crawford, President of the Court of Westmore
land County, under Pennsylvania appointment, having accepted a captain's
commission from Lord Dunmore, embodied, up the Monnngahela and
Youghiogheny, one hundred men, and proceeded down to Chartiers' Creek to
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 323
The men that have been raised here we have thought proper to
continue another month, as the harvest will, by that time, be over.
They have orders to assist and protect the people in the different
quarters where they are posted, and I hope by that means that it
will be secured.
The arms and ammunition are not yet arrived, but I hear they
will reach that place to-morrow or next day.
Last week Mr. Conolly issued an order to prevent any skins
being removed from Pittsburgh, till they paid duty as in Virginia.
There has been some appearance of the old seed of the Black
Boys, a number of the people had assembled to stop Mr. Somons's
goods, but I had got notice of it and sent a party to protect them,
and have issued warrants against them. Their ring-leader will cer
tainly be taken this day.
William Smith to Arthur St. Clair.
Philadelphia, July 5th, 1774.
Sir:—The proceedings of Conolly are shocking and a high disgrace
to the Government from which he pretends his authority, as well as
to this Government, for suffering such flagrant acts within its known
jurisdiction. No pains shall be spared you effectual and imme
diate relief. When any thing falls in the way, Dr. McKenzie will
guard the people while they got their stock away. He then went down the
Ohio as far as Grave Creek to wateh the motions of the Indians, but, seeing
none, returned home with his command. St. Clair seems not to have been
advised of this, the first expedition down the Ohio, in " Lord Dunmore's
War."
It will bo remembered that early in June, Conolly proposed to send a con
siderable force down the river to build a stockade at Wheeling, and another
at Hockhocking (St. Clair to Governor Penn, June 16th, ante). Captain
William Crawford headed the force, which reached Wheeling without acci
dent, and commenced the erection of a fort there. Meanwhile, Lord Dunmore
planned two expeditions: one to march down the Kanawha, under
Col. Andrew Lewis, to erect a fort at its mouth, and the other under Col.
Angus McDonald, to build one at Wheeling (which had already been an
ticipated by Conolly; and the work was actually begun by Crawford). •'The Virginians, from their conduct, appear determined on a war. Col
onel Lewis is supposed to be at the Canawes [mouth of the Great Kanawha]
with 1500 men and several parties have gone from this place to join him.
Major McDonald, Mr. Cresap and others, are expected here shortly, who, it is
said, are goinc; down the river [Ohio] to build forts and station men at dif
ferent places." —JEntas Mnckay to Joseph Shippen, Jr^ from Pittsburgh,
July 8, 1774.
32-4 The St. Clair Papers.
not be forgot. Something concerning your Fort Pitt affairs will be
published from time to time, as we can produce intelligence.
James Wilson1 to Arthur St. Clatr.
Carlisle, July 1th, 1774.
Dear Sir:—I was favored with your letter2 by Mr. Anderson.
My connection with the county of Westmoreland, and the regard I
have for some valuable friends there, lay me, in my opinion, under
an indispensable obligation to do them every little service in my
power. The sentiments of the gentlemen who joined with me
in sending up the ammunition,3 are, I believe, upon this subject, the
same. We only did our duty, therefore, upon that occasion. It
will always give me a very sensible pleasure to testify these senti
ments ; and if any opportunity shall occur in which you think I
can be of the least use, I shall esteem it friendly in you to give me
notice of it.
The Governor has summoned the Assembly to meet on the 18th
of this month. What measures that body will adopt in order to se
cure and protect the frontiers of the Province, it is impossible to
foretell.'
In the interior parts of the Province the public attention is much
engrossed about the late conduct of the Parliament with regard to
America,5 and the steps which the Colonies ought jointly to take to
maintain their liberties ; against which, to say the least of the mat
ter, a very dangerous blow seems to be aimed. A general Congress
1 Native of Scotland, lawyer of distinction, and afterwards signer of Dec
laration of Independence, etc.
2This letter has not been found in the St. Clair Papers.
2Supplies sent to Westmoreland for use of the rangers raised by St.
Clair to protect the frontiers.
'When the Assembly met, Governor Penn communicated the facts set
forth in the foregoing correspondence, asked that an appropriation be mado
to meet expenses incurred in arming the rangers, and that some method be
devised for accommodating the Indian troubles. Appropriation made by
the Assembly, and the Governor advised to renew the peace with the In
dians, and offer to act as a mediator between the Indians and Virginia. A
reward of one hundred pounds was offered for apprehending John Hinkson
and James Cooper for the murder of the friendly Indian, Joseph Wipey.
6 Meetings to express sympathy with Boston were held in June at Lan
caster, Chester, and other interior points.
Correspondence, Addresses, Ete. 32j
from all the different Provinces will certainly be appointed. With
regard to the propriety of entering into a non-importation and nonexportation
agreemeut, the opinions of the people in this Province,
as well as the opinions of those in the other Provinces, are not, as
far as I can learn, unanimous.
A meeting of deputies from the several counties in this Province
is to be held at Philadelphia on the loth inst., in order to concart
the preparatory steps to a general Congress.1 Letters from the com
mittee of the city and county of Philadelphia are, I presume, sent
up to you, informing you of this.
Please to offer my best compliments to Mrs. St. Clair.
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Penn.
Hanna's Town, July 12, 1774.
Sir:—On Friday last I was honored with your letter of the 28th
tilt., and I have now the satisfaction to acquaint you that the panic
seems entirely over, and that numbers of people are returning
daily.
It must be very grateful to every person concerned, as it is in a
very particular manner to me, that their endeavors on this occasion
has met with so full approbation from your Honor, and will most
certainly induce them to exert themselves on future ones. I had
yesterday an opportunity to acquaint them, as also a very respectable
body of people who were assembled here in consequence of a letter
from the Committee of Philadelphia, of your determination to af
ford them every necessary assistance and protection. I read to them
that part of your Honor's letter, and they received it with great
satisfaction and thankfulness.
1The meeting on the 15th was attended by the distinguished citizens of
Pennsylvania: John Dickinson, Joseph Keed, Thomas Fitzsimmons, and
Thomas Mifflin attended from Philadelphia; James Wilson, Kobert Magaw,
and William Irvine from Cumberland. The last two served as Colonels un
der St. Clair during the war. James Wilson was a member of the com
mittee to prepare instructions to the delegates appointed to attend a general
Congress. The Assembly, on the 22d, voted that a Congress of Deputies
ought to be held " for obtaining redress of American grievances, ascertain
ing American rights, upon the most solid constitutional principles, and for
establishmg that union and harmony between Great Britain and the Colo
nies, which is indispensably necessary for the welfare and happiness of
both."
326 The St. Clair Papers.
I shall probably have occasion to write you again to-morrow, as I
had, yesterday, a letter from Mr. Croghan,1 desiring a conference
on matters of great importance to the Province, which he would not
trust in writing. I believe, however, it is a proposal to open some
trading place ; that is, to form a town some where up the Alleghany,
as the trading people must leave Pittsburgh. Hinkston,1 with
about eighteen men in arms, paid us a visit at court last week, and,
I am very sorry to say, got leave to go away again, though there
was a force sufficient to secure two such parties at the sheriff's
directions. I had got intelligence that they were to be there, and
expected to be joined by a party of Cresap's people, for which rea
son the ranging party that were within reach had been drawn in,
but none of the Virginians appeared. It is said a commission has
been sent him from Virginia ; certain it is, he is enlisting men for
that service.
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Penn.
Ligonier, July 17th, 1774.
Sir :—The business Mr. Croghan had to communicate was this :
That the Virginians are determined to put a stop to the Indian
trade with this Province, and that Messrs. Simons, Campbell, and
Conolly have obtained an exclusive privilege of carrying it on,
on the frontiers of Virginia. He recommends the laying out of a
town up the Alleghany at the Kittanning, to which the traders
might retire, as they will certainly be obliged to abandon Pitts
burgh, and from which the trade might be carried on to as much
advantage, as the distance from thence to Kuskuskies3 is much the
same as from Pittsburgh, and a very good road. He further re
commends the building of a small stockade there, to afford them
protection in case of a war. The Indians will certainly quit Pitts
burgh, ps it is at the risk of their lives they come there, to which I
was an eye-witness.
1See St. Clair's letter of the 17th, to Governor Penn, following.
2This is the same Hinkston that was charged with being one of the party
who murdered the Delaware, Joseph Wipey.
s A Delaware Indian town, of the Monsey tribe or clan, situated at the
Junction of the Shenango and Mahoning rivers, in what is now Lawrence
County, Pennsylvania. The place was nearly north-west from the site of
the proposed now town at "the Kittanning," upon the Alleghany—the spot
where the present Kittanning, county seat of Armstrong County, is located.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 327
Croghan further says, that unless somebody is sent up by the
Government to speak to the Indians very soon, that we shall see no
more of them, and that the Delawares, who are still friendly, will
be debauched.
I beg you to excuse this incoherent scrawl, as I am obliged to be
held up whilst I write it.
Hinkston has left the country.
John Conolly to Arthur St. Clair.
Fort Dunmore,1 July 19th, 1774.
Dear Sir : —A report, which has too generally prevailed in this
quarter, of the pacific disposition of the Indians, has unluckily lulled
the inhabitants into supineness and neglect, the effects of which have
been dismally experienced on the 13th inst. , upon Dunkard Creek,
where six unfortunate people were murdered by a party of thirtyfive
Indians. I have also received a letter from Colonel Lewis,
acquainting me that the Shawanese had attacked a body of men
near to his house, and had killed one and wounded another. What
ever may be said of the cause urging the Indians to these steps will
be little to the advantage of these suffering people ; some immediate
steps most undoubtedly ought to be pursued to check their insolent
impetuosity, or the country in general will be sacrificed to their re
venge. The people of the frontiers want nothing but the counte
nance of Government to execute every desirable purpose, and your
Province appearing backward at this critical juncture will most
indubitably be highly displeasing to all the western settlers. I am
determined no longer to be a dupe to their amicable professions, but,
on the contrary, shall pursue every measure to offend them ; whether
I may have the friendly assistance or not of the neighboring coun
try will, I expect, depend much on your just representation of
matters.
Arthur St. Clatr to John Conolly.
Ligonier, July 22d, 1774.
Sir:—I received your favor of the 19th, yesterday, by Doctor
1 The new nnmo given by Conolly to Fort Pitt. He not only had pos
session of the fort, with a body of Virginia militia, ns he termed them, hut
had made considerable repairs upon the fortress.
328 The St. Clair Papers.
McKenzie, and am extremely sorry for the misfortunes that have
happened upon Dunkard Creek.
It is very true, the assigning this or that cause for the inroads
which the Indians are frequently making will be of no manner of
advantage to the sufferers ; but I think the security into which the
people had fallen arose, not so much from an idea of the pacific
disposition of the Indians, as that the great armed force sent down
the river would effectually cover them ; in that expectation they
were certainly wrong ; it was an effect coidd never follow from such
a cause.
I agree with you, something ought to be done to prevent the dep
redations the Indians may still make upon the inhabitants ; that is,
ample reparation ought to be made them for the injuries they have al
ready sustained, and an honest open intercourse established with them
for the future. This, I imagine, would be found a more cheap, easy,
and expeditious manner of re-establishing the peace of this country
than any offensive measures whatsoever ; for, be assured, the rest of
the nations will not sit tamely by and see a people who have long
been aiming at taking the lead amongst themselves cut off, or even
much depressed, by the English.
The councils of this Province will, I hope, continue to be founded
in justice, whether that may be displeasing to the western settlers
or not ; but you are certainly wrong to imagine my representations
have any influence in the matter. I slmll, however, represent mat
ters as they occur to those in Government in the light they appear
to me, as I have done hitherto, and have uniformly declared that I
saw not the least probability of war, unless the Virginians forced it
on. The different maneuvers up and down and across the river
have now probably brought that event about ; who may see the end
of it God only knows.
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Penn.
Ligonier, July 22d, 1774.
Sir :—For some days by-past we had a flying report that some
people were killed upon Dunkard Creek, on the 15th instant, but
that a story of that kind should come so slowly through a country
exceedingly on the alarm, induced me to give no credit to it, and
to endeavor to prevent its gaining credit in the country. I con
sidered it as raised^n purpose to prevent the execution of Conolly's
orders to Cresap not to annoy the Indians, which I knew had been
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 329
given, but it was put beyond a doubt yesterday by letters from Mr.
Mounby, Mr. Mackay, and the inclosed deposition.1
Mr. Mackay writes me the friends of Pennsylvania are determined
to abandon Pittsburgh, and to erect a small stockade somewhere
lower down the road (I suppose about Turtle Creek,2 where he has a
fine plantation), to secure their cattle and effects till they see further
what is to be done.
I had a letter from Conolly yesterday, in a style of familiarity I
should not have expected, but of itself a very extraordinary one ;
if you should think it worth your while to look over it, I have
inclosed it, and a copy of my answer.3
1 am still sanguine enough to hope this Province will escape the
mischiefs of a war, as all the operations of the Indians are evidently
aimed at the Virginians, and seem designed to show them how
much they despise the notion of their carrying the war into thenown
country. They have, however, a number of men at Wheeling,
and Conolly was to march this day to reinforce them. One of his
parties who had crossed to the Indian side fell in with the last of
our trader, peltry, escorted by some Delawares. They took the
trader and the Indians prisoners, and carried them to the mouth of
Beaver Creek, where their captain (Hogland) lay. He was exces
sively enraged to see them alive, and they were kept all night in
that state of suspense that every moment would be the last ; in the
morning, however, they discharged them, on the trader's giving a
bond of five hundred pounds, to satisfy Captain Conolly that the
1The following is the deposition referred to:
"(Copy) July 15th, 1774.
" Personally appeared before me George Willson, a justice of the peace,
John Pollock, David Shelvey and George Sbervor, and made oath on the
Holy Evangelist, that they were personally present in the Corn Field on
Dunkard Creek, where the late Murder on the 13th Instant happened, and
saw the corpse that was Buried, who ware sadly Massacred, and Scalpted and
farther eayeth not.
"Sworn to before G. Willson.
"N. B.—The above is incorrect, but I give it you as I got it, (that is,)
nine persons were working in a field, four was killed and sadly mangled. 3
escaped, the other two is missing. Cresaps is in Chace of them, but they
had a day's start of him."
2 Turtle Creek flows from the north-east into the Monongahela, a short
distance beyond Braddock's field, in Alleghany County, east of Pittsburgh.
8 See the two previous letters—Connolly to St. Clair, and the latter's re
ply.
830 The St. Clair Papers.
Indians were Delawares. I took the trader's deposition on it when
last at Pittsburgh, which I also inclose.
I was very ill when I wrote last, of a bilious fever, but am hap
pily recovering. I can not well recollect what I wrote, as it was
not copied, it being Sunday and my clerk abroad ; but unless mat
ters are likely to be soon settled about Pittsburgh, it will be abso
lutely necessary to erect a town at the Kittanning ; the trade must
else take its course by the lakes, which will carry it quite away
from this Province, and the communication with Philadelphia will
in time become very easy that way, and may now be done with very
little land carriage. There is an old trading path from thence to
Frank's Town,1 on the Juniata, and another to the head of the West
Branch of Susquehanna.
I have distributed the arms all over the country in as equal pro
portions as possible.
Captain Crawford, the President of our Court, seems to be the
most active Virginia officer in their service. He is now down the
river at the head of a number of men, which is his second expedi
tion. I don't know how gentlemen account for these things to
themselves.2
.Sneas Mackay to Arthur St. Clair.
Pittsburgh, July 25, 1774.
Dear Sir:—The last accounts brought in here from the Indian
country by Captain White Eyes I have transmitted to you yester
day by express. I have there informed you that you should be fur
nished with White Eyes's speech as soon as it could be procured
from Captain McKee, from whom we have since obtained a copy,
which will be delivered to you by Richard Butler, who is kind
enough to go to Ligonier at the request of Messrs. Spear, Smith,
and myself, as well with these papers as consult you about other
matters that we are all equally interested in.2 You know Mr. But1The
site of an Indian village, in the present county of Huntingdon,
Pennsylvania.
2Reference is here made to William Crawford, at that time, as before
mentioned, President of the Court of Westmoreland County. He was, at
this date, busy in erecting a fort at Wheeling.
8 See letter of St. Clair to Governor Penn, July 26, 1774, following.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 331
ler to be both a man of sense and a faithful Pennsylvanian ; there
fore his reports are to be depended on. We are of opinion that
it is absolutely necessary that immediate application should be
made to Government in favor of the Delawares, that some steps
may be taken to reward the fidelity of that people, especially such
of them as will undertake to reconnoiter and guard the frontiers of
this Province, which they say they will do, from the hostile de
signs of the Shawanese ; and as by that means they will be prevented
from following their own occupations, it would be no more than
right to supply their necessary wants, while they continue to de
serve it so well at our hands.
There is nothing but the dread my family are in of the Indians
approaching this place in my absence that would prevent my going
in person to see you at this time, in your present dangerous in
disposition. I hope to hear by the bearer on his return of your
getting the better of your disorder.
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Penn.
Ligonier, July 26, 1774.
Sir:—I have enclosed a letter I received last night from Mr.
Mackay, of Pittsburgh, together with the speeches and intelligence
brought by White Eyes, and a deposition respecting some Indians
having been seen in the country.1 I thought them of consequence
1The "speeches and intelligence," referred to by St. Clair, were as fol
lows: I.
[White Eyes's Speech.]
Pittsburgh, July 23, 1774.
We are glad to hear from you the good speeches which you have now
spoken to us, and it also gave us great pleasure to hear from our brethren
of Pennsylvania, when they reminded us of that ancient friendship made
by our wise forefathers, which they have at this time handed to us, desiring
us to take fast hold of it.
Brethren, Sir William Johnson, with our uncles, the Fivo Nations, the
Wyandots, and all the several tribes of Chcrokees, and Southern Indians,
have spoke to us of peace and friendship ; and you, our brethren of Vir
ginia, have likewise desired us to be strong in holding fast the chain of
friendship; and we now tell you that we strictly observe to do it. And now,
brethren, I inform you that we will sit still here at our towns, Kakelellama-
332 The St. Clair Papers.
to be quickly communicated to you, and have forwarded them by
express, as it was quite uncertain when a private opportunity might
peking, Gnaddenhutten, and Tupickcong, upon the Muskingum, to hold fast
that chain of friendship between you and us.
Brethren, you desired us that the road between us and you might be kept
clear and open, that the traders might pass and repass safe, which we also
have done, and we wish that it may continue further. We desire, therefore,
that you will not suffer your foolish young people to lie on the road to watch
and frighten our people, by pointing their guns at them when they come to
trade with you; for some of our people have been so seared that the}- came
home and alarmed our towns, as if the white people would kill all the In
dians, whether they were friends or enemies. (A string of while wampum.)
Brethren of Virginia, we now see you and the Shawanese in grips with
each other, ready to strike; and we do not know what to say between you
further; you will be the best judges yourselves of what is to follow, as we
can do no mora to reconcile you. But in the struggle between you, when
you have thrown down the Shawanese, brethren, we desire you to look no
further, nor set down there, but return to the Kenhawa or south side of the
Ohio, the place that you then rise from; and when you have so concluded
this dispute, brethren, we will expect to hear from you, that we may
acquaint all other Nations of it, but hope that you will be strong, brethren,
and renew the ancient friendship with all other Nations, when you have
ended your dispute with these people. (A string of black wampum.)
[Intelligence received from Captain White Eyes:]
On my return to Newcomer's Town with the speeches you charged mo
with, I found that several parties of Shawanese had set out to war against
you, contrary to their promise before to the Chiefs of the Delawares, whe
desired me to return and inform you of it, as it would be to no purpose to
treat further with thern upon friendly terms, but that they should be in
formed of your speeches; thej- came forwarded by two of your people.
Brethren, we have now to acquaint you that the Shawanese are all gone
from Wagetomica to Hssemble themselves at the Lower Towns; if there
was one yet remaining we would tell you. But as this is not the case, and
some of our people may be yet on their way up from amongst them, we
would have you consider and cross to them from the mouth of the Big Kenflawa,
as our women and children may now be frightened when you come
near them, and the Shawanese are all gone.
Brethren, one of the Shawanese that has headed a party against you, has
sent us word that he was going to strike you, and when he had done it, he
would then blaze a road from the place he would do the mischief to New
comer's Town, by which he would see whether the peace was so strong be
tween the whites and the Delawares as they pretended. Keesnateta has
likewise sent us word that he now saw his grandfathers, the Delawares, had
thrown them away, for which reason they were now rising to go away,
though, he said, he was sure no other Nation had done it; and that it had
been an ancient custom with their Nation, that when they left any place in
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 333
offer. All prospect of accommodation with the Shawanese and Vir
ginians is certainly over for some time, but yet it does not appear
they have any hostile intentions against this Province. The en
gaging the service of the Delawares to protect our frontiers would
undoubtedly be good policy, if it did not cost too dear. I am afraid,
however, they will be very craving, but as they have offered it, it
should not be altogether overlooked. At the same time their friend
ship should be secured on as easy terms as possible.
I doubt, with the utmost prudence that can be exerted, but these
Indian disturbances will occasion a very heavy expense to the
Province. The necessity of establishing some place of security for
the trade (if it is considered as advisable to carry it on at all), is inthc
manner they were doing, whoever remained behind them, they always
turned about and struck them.
Brethren, the day we got into Newcomer's Town n party was discovered,
whose intentions were to come to Fort Pitt to put Colonel Croghan and
Alexander McKce, with Guyasutha, to death, and also waylay us, which we
passed; as by killing us, they say, no more news will be carried between the
white people and the Indians. I could inform you of a great deal more, but
these are the most material occurrences and facts, which you may depend
upon.
My brother is lately como from the Wabash Indians, who told him they
would expect to hear the truths of the accounts from that quarter on his re
turn; and I havfl sent a message by him to them, desiring them not to listen
to the Shawanese, who would only endeavor to draw them into troubles and
leave them by themselves, which had been their constant practice.
[Mr. Croghan addressed Captain White Eyes as his particular friend.]
Brother, I now speak to you as a friend to both parties, your Nation and
the English, and not by any particular authority, and I am convinced from
the speeches you have now delivered, that your Nation has the sincerest in
tentions of preserving entire that friendship subsisting between you and us;
and I observo from your intelligence that the Shawanese are withdrawn
from one of their towns in your neighborhood, which is an evident proof
that they do not moan to be friends with you or us; therefore, brothers, I
would have you consider well whether you would not in the present cir
cumstance think it prudent for some of your people to accompany ours when
they go to chastise the Shawanese, in order to enable them to make a proper
distinction between our friends and our enemies.
[Captain White Eyes' answer to Colonel Croghan:]
I am glad to bear you, and I will consider what you have said, but cannot
immediately return you an answer. I will send your message to our Chiefs at
Kaskaskia, and as soon as I have their sentiments and advice will speak to
you, which I expect in two days ; in the meantime, you may be assured that
their sentiments will not deviate from that strict friendship subsisting
between us.
334 The St. Clair Papers.
creasing daily. A small parcel of goods which Mr. Spear has sent
to one of the Delaware towns has enraged the commandant at Pitts
burgh to an exceeding degree, and he threatens " the persons who
carried them shall be tried for their lives on their return." I men
tioned the Kittanning; it is certainly a proper place, both on account
of some natural advantages of situation with regard to the interior
part of the country, and that its being in one of your manors, the
settlers would have an opportunity of procuring lots on easy terms ;
at the same time it would not be foreign to your interest. I find,
however, they-—the traders at Pittsburgh—would wish to fix upon
some place nearer that town, for which I can see no reason, unless
they imagine the property they leave behind them will be more un
der their eye, or which, I think more probable, Mr. Croghan directs
them to some spot where he has a right, and which may serve his
interest ; for though I believe he is zealous in the service of the
public at present, he will never lose sight of his own particular in
terest. If they do remove, I will endeavor to persuade them to the
Kittanning at once ; but if they are unwilling, your ordering a town
to be laid out there, and a small stockade to be built, will effectually
determine them before they have gone far in another settlement.
Captain White Eyes and John Montaur are preparing a party to
join the Virginian militia if they cross the river to attack the lower
Shawanese ; and I have been solicited to order some of the rangers
to join them. This I have positively refused, and have sent orders
to the person intended, on no account whatever to attempt to pass
either of the'rivers. So far from joining the Virginians, who have
taken such pains to involve the country in war, it would, in my
idea, be not improper that the Shawanese should know this Gov
ernment is at peace with them, and will continue so, provided they
do not infringe it themselves, and that a boundary be given them,
the doing mischief on the east side of which would be considered a
declaration of war and bring all the weight of this Government
upon them.
We begin to be impatient with respect to the rangers ; their second
month is just expiring, but whilst the country is in such commotion,
and the harvest not yet got in, they can not be dismissed. I have
not the least fears about the expense, and the Association may safely
depend on the generosity of the Government, more especially as
they have such assurances from your Honor of your approbation
of the measure, and your assistance towards relieving them from
the expense.
P. S. —If you should think proper to allow some presents to be
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 335
made the Indians, I would be very glad the sum were specified. I
am very little acquainted with Indian affairs, and I do not trust Mr.
Croghan too much ; he has been used to make expenses, and would
not be very sparing where he thought he had the purse of a Province
to make free with, and too great parsimony might spoil all. I have
agreed with the express for six shillings a day. Mr. Croghan says
he expects some of the Six Nations to join White Eyes' party.
Governor Penn to Arthur St. Clair.
Philadelphia, 6th August, 1774.
Sir:—I have received your letters of the 22d and 26th ulto.,
inclosing several depositions and letters relative to the present sit
uation ofaffairs in Westmoreland.
As I find by all intelligence you have from time to time commu
nicated to me, that the Shawanese, as well as the Delawares, have
discovered a strong aversion to entering into a war, either with
Virginia or this Province, and, on the contrary, have given repeated
proofs of their sincere disposition to live in peace and harmony with
both colonies, I have, with the advice of my council, thought it
expedient to send messages to those tribes, expressing the great
concern of this Government at the late unfortunate disturbances
between them and some of His Majesty's subjects belonging to the
Colony of Virginia, at the same time declaring our resolution to
preserve the treaties of peace and friendship existing between us
inviolate, and earnestly advising the Shawanese not to strike the
people of Virginia, as they, as well as the people of this Province
are all subjects of one and the same great King, who will be as
much offended at any injury committed against any one part of his
subjects as another, but to exert their best endeavors to settle the
differences that have arisen between the Virginians and them, and
to continue to live in friendship with all His Majesty's subjects.1
1The messages to the Shawanese and Delawares were in these words:
[To the Shawanese.]
" By the Honorable JOHN PENN, Esquire, Governor and Commander-in.
Chief of the Province of Pennsylvania, and Counties of Newcastle, Kent, and
Sussex, on Delaware.
" A Message to the Chiefs and Warriors of the Shawanese Indians.
Brethren:—"When I had heard that you had taken care of our traders,
and had sent some of your young men to conduct them home in safety, it
made my heart glad, because 1 was satisfied that you kept fast hold of the
336 The St. Clair Papers.
As to the proposal of engaging the services of the Delawares to
protect our frontiers, I would only just observe that it is a matter
chain of friendship which was made between our forefathers, and renewed by
us, and you may be assured that 1 shall always remember this instance of
your kindness, and that I shall hold fast that end of the chain which is in my
hands, so long as you hold yours. But, brethren, it gives me great concern,
and my heart is grieved to hear of the difference between you and our
brothers, the people of Virginia. If any of the wicked people of Virginia
have murdered any of your people, you should complain of it to the Gov
ernor, and he will have them punished. You should not, in such cases, take
revenge upon innocent people whe have never hurt you. It is a very wicked
thing to kill innocent people because some of their countrymen have been
vicked and killed some of you.
"Lirethrcn, if you continue to act in this manner, the people of Virginia
must do the same thing by you, and then there will he nothing but war bef.vcen
you. Consider, brethren, that the people of Virginia are like the
leaver upon the trees, very numerous, and you aro but a few, and although
you should kill ten of their people for one that they kill of yours, they will
at last wear you out and destroy you. They are able to send a grout army
into your country, and destroy your towns, and your corn, and either kill
your wives and children or drive them away Besides, brethren, the Vir
ginians, as wel as our people and you, are children of the Great King who
lives beyond the great water; and if his children fall out and go to war
among themselves, and some of them are wicked, and will not make peace
with the others, he will be very angry, and punish tnose who are in fault.
Therefore, brethren, let me advise you to forget and to forgive what is past,
and to send to the Governor of Virginia, and offer to make peace.
" I shall write to the Governor of Virginia, and endeavor to persuade him
to join you in mending the chain of friendship between you, which has
been broken, and to make it so strong that it may never be broken again;
and 1 hope, brethren, if he be willing to do this good thins;, that you will
be of the same mind, and then we shall all live together like friends and
brothers."
" Given under my hand and the lesser seal of the said Province, at Phila
delphia, the sixth day of August, in the year of our Lord, 1774."
[To the Delawares.]
" By the Honorable JOHN PENN, Esquire, Governor and Commander-inChief
of the Province of Pennsylvania, and Counties of Acucastle, Kent, and
Sussex, on Delaware.
" A Message to the Chiefs and Warriors of the Delaware Indians.
"Brethren:—1 was grieved at my heart when I heard that some of our
foolish young men had killed our brother, Joseph Wipey, and that the Vir
ginians had killed some ot your people below Fort Pitt. I was fearful that
you would suffer your youne men lo take revenge upon our innocent people,
hut when I heard that you had a good heart, and viewed these things in
their proper light, and that you remembered the chain of friendship made
by our forefathers, and would not take revenge upon us for what the Vir
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 337
in the present situation of Indian affairs too delicate for me to in
termeddle in.
Since my last letter to you, I have considered of what you men
tioned in a former letter, and now repeat, respecting the establish
ment of some place of security for carrying on the Indian trade, as
you say that Pittsburgh will certainly be abandoned by all our
people ; and I am now to acquaint you that I approve of the meas
ure of laying out a town in the proprietary manor of Kittanning,
to accommodate the traders and the other inhabitants who may
choose to reside there ; and, therefore, inclose you an order for that
purpose. But I can not, without the concurrence of the Assembly,
give any directions for erecting a stockade or any other work for
the security of the place which may incur an expense to the
Province.
With respect to the continuance of the two hundred rangers in
the service, it must altogether depend upon the intelligence we reginians
or some of our foolish young men had done, it gave mo the greatest
satisfaction, and made my mind easy.
" Brethren, you may depend that so long as you aro inclined to peace and
friendship you shall find mo in the same mind, for why should we fall out
and go to murdering one another for what our foolish young peoplo do, and
what neither of us approve of? In such cases, let us endeavor to find out
such foolish young me and punish them for their wickedness. I have offered
a reward of fifty pounds apiece for those two wicked people, who, it is said,
murdered Joseph "Wipcy, and, if they can be taken, I shall do every thing
in my power to have them punished.
"I am very sorry to hear that your grandchildren, the Shawanese, have
a difference with our brothers, tho Virginians, and I wish I could make
them friends. I shall write to the Governor of Virginia, and recommend it
to him to endeavor to make peace with them; and I would advise you to
go to tho Shawanese, and persuade them to forget every thing that is past,
and mako up all their differences with the people of Virginia, so that wo
may all live together in peace and quietness, like friends and brothers, for
what can they get by being a war with one another? wheever of them gets
the best, both will be very much hurt.
" Brethren, 1 live a great way from you, and have a great deal of busi
ness to do with my people at home, otherwise I would go to see you, and
shake hands with you, and smoke a pipe with you under the tree of peace,
as we and our forefathers used to do. By all means, brethren, be strong,
and keep fast held of "ne end of the covenant chain, and you may be as
sured I will keep Cast hold of the other, and when any of our people are so
wicked as to kill any of yours, or do you any harm, let me know it. and I
will do every thing in my power to have justice done.
" Given under my hand and the lesser seal of the said province, at Phila
delphia, the sixth day of August, in the year of our Lord 1774. 22
338 The St. Clair Papers.
ceive of the situation of our affairs with the Indians. At present I
think it very improper to discharge them ; and it is not improbable
that if the commotions between the Virginians and the Indians
should not soon be at an end, it may be necessary to keep them ou
foot for the protection of our people till the meeting of the Assem
bly on the 19th of September.
I herewith send to your care the messages above mentioned, with
a belt of wampum accompanying each, and desire you will engage
some trusty, intelligent person to carry them, and interpret the
messages to the Indians. A young man of the name of Elliot, who
has been trading at the Shawanese to\vns, and lately came from
thence, has offered his services to carry any messages from Govern
ment to the Indians, and may probably be a very proper person to
employ on this occasion. He was to leave this place yesterday, on his
return to Westmoreland. I should be glad to have his deposition
taken as to what he knows respecting the late disturbances between
the Virginians and the Indians, from the beginning of them.
You hint something in your last letter about making presents to
the Indians, but though such a step at some future convenient time
might be useful and proper, I am of opinion it would be very unadvisable
under the present circumstances.
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Penn.
Ligonier, August 8, 1774.
Sir:—I am just returned from Pittsburgh, where the Pipe,
Guyasutha, and the White Mingo are arrived, and bring favorable
accounts from the Indian Nations about the lakes. They say they
are all disposed to continue in friendship with the English; but the
Wyandotts, the Hurons, and the Tawas have been waivering. The
Shawanese had applied to them, and.it was so long that they heard
nothing from our people, that they were inclined to assist them, but
these chiefs have persuaded them to sit still, and to send to the
Wabash Indians to be quiet likewise ; so that it is probable they
arrived amongst them in a favorable time.
Some deputies from the Six Nations are also arrived. They have
brought a very large belt to Mr. Croghan and Mr. McKee, inform
ing them of the death of Sir William Johnson, and of their inten
tions, notwithstanding, to adhere firmly to the treaties subsisting
betwixt the English and them, and to endeavor to retain the other
Nations in peace. They also have sent a belt by these deputies to
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 339
the Delawares, and to the Wabash Confederacy, recommending it to
them to remain in peace, and to inform them that though their
great friend is dead, the council-fire kindled by the English and
them continues to burn as bright as ever ; such is their mode of ex
pression. From these circumstances it is to be hoped that the fracas
with the Shawanese will blow over without any very bad conse
quences, though that depends upon others, which must be brought
about in a very little time, as five hundred of the Virginians
are marched to destroy Wakatomica, the town the Shawanese lately
abandoned.1
Should these meet with any check, which is not improbable, some
of the Western Nations will certainly join them ; but if they re
turn without, and are satisfied with destroying that town, matters
may probably be made up; but I doubt they will not stop there, as
you see by the inclosed copy of a letter from Lord Dunmore to Mr.
Conolly, which accidentally fell into my hands, that his Lordship
is very full of chastising them ; and the twenty-fifth of next month
is fixed for attacking the great Shawanese town on the Scioto. Your
Honor will please to take notice, that the hint I gave you before of
a design to interrupt the trade of this Province, however improbable
it might appear, was not without some foundation.
Mr. Hauna returned from Philadelphia yesterday, and gives an
account that the Assembly have provided for the men that were
raised for the defense of this county to the tenth instant, or longer
if necessary, and that he himself is appointed Senior Captain, ab
initio, Mr. Caret the next, and a number of others who have never
served an hour. The last part of his intelligence I gave no credit
1In July, 1774, Major Angus McDonald arrived over the mountains,
with a considerable force of Virginia militia, which, when embodied with
those already raised in the West, amounted to seven hundred men. Mc
Donald went down to Wheeling, in order to take command, as there the
whole force rendezvoused. A stockade fort (Fort Fincastle) was erected
under the joint directions of Major McDonald and Captain William Craw
ford.
On the twenty-sixth of July, about four hundred men, having left Wheel
ing, arrived at the mouth of Fish Creek, on the east side of the Ohio, twentyfour
miles below. Hero they determined to move against the Shawanese
villages upon the Muskingum River, in what is now Muskingum county,
Ohio. The men were led by Major McDonald. Captain Crawford re
mained at Fort Fincastle. The expedition proved successful. Wakatomica,
near what is now Dresden, Ohio, and other Shawanese towns, were destroyed,
and considerable plunder secured. This was the first effective blow struck
by Virginia troops in Lord Dunmore's War.—Rutlerfiebts WashingtonCrawford
Letters, p. 96.
340 The St. Clair Papers.
to, as he has no commission, nor any letters from any person about
Government ; and I do imagine, that as the command of them had
been originally committed to me, without giving me some intima
tion of it. Nor is it reasonable that these men should take rank of
the officers who have, in former wars, faithfully, as I am told,
served this Government. Trifling as this affair is, it is likely to
create much uneasiness; but I am certain your Honor will not al
low those who have done no service, to rob those who have, of their
just reward ; besides, the Association is bound to pay those they
emplo3'ed. I must own I have been remiss in not fully informing
your Honor who they were ; but I beg you to reflect upon the
severe sickness I have just passed through. Some of them, had
there been the least prospect of its being a permanent affair, I
should not have recommended to you; but we were under the
necessity of employing such people as had influence amongst
the me ib and could get the men; and you will please to consider
that it is by such acts that they must still be managed, as there are
no laws by which obedience or discipline can be enforced. I have
told Mr. Hanua peremptorily, that I should retain the direction of
the troops till I had your orders to the contrary; and I fondly
hope this explanation will not disoblige you.
Notwithstanding what I said to Mr. Smith on the subject of join
ing the Virginians, he thought proper to join a small party of Delawares
and Mingoes, with eight men, in the character of volunteers,
aud proceeded to Wheeling. The Virginia detachment had marched
two days before they arrived ; and Captain Crawford, who com
mands them (the President of our Court), told him it would fatigue
them too much to overtake the party, and that they had better re
turn, which accordingly they did; and by what I learn from him,
they seemed equally jealous both of him aud the Indians.
I can recollect nothing else at present, and your Honor may propably
think I might have spared a great part of what is already
written.
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Penn.
LroonieR, August 25ih, 1774.
Sir:—Agreeable to your request, I now euclo.se you the deposi
tions of some of the inhabitants of Pittsburgh, respecting the treat
ment they have met with from the Virginian officers.1 Not any of
1 From the 22d to tlio 21th of August, inclusive, St. Clair took depositions
of seven residents of Westmoreland County—James Fowler, Samuel St.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 341
the persons who saw the Shawanesc after they had been fired upon
on their return, are now there, so that I would not inquire into that
circumstance.
The message to the Dclawares, with the belt of wampum, I de
livered to some of their principal chiefs, at Mr. Croghan's, on (Sun
day last. Mr. Croghan and Mr. MeKee were of opinion it would,
perhaps, be taken ill by the Six Nations that they were not in
cluded. I therefore took the liberty to add them in the address to
the message, and had a fair copy made out ami given to them with
a belt. They were received seemingly with great satisfaction by
both, and they declared the firmest purposes of remaining in peace
themselves, and restoring it between the people of Virginia and the
Shawanese. At the same time I acquainted them with your orders
for erecting a trading place at the Kittanning, for which they are
very thankful, as they are in want of many things already, and can
not come to Pittsburgh and purchase ; and a number of them will
probably be there on Monday next, which is the time I have ap
pointed for laying out the town. Mr. Ppear and Mr. Butler set out
this day with their goods and other effects.
Instead of sending the message to the Bhawanese by a white man,
I procured the Pipe, a faithful and sensible Delaware chief, to go
and acquaint them with the message his nation had received from
your Honor ; that you had recommended it to them to speak to the
Shawanese not to strike the Virginians, and that he had seen a mes
sage and belt for them, which, if they were well disposed, some of
their people might come and receive it at Appleby. I thought this
the most advisable way, as the people at the fort are extremely jeal
ous of any person going amongst them, and had threatened the
young man you mention to go with them; and some proposals of
accommodation, I understand, have been made them by Mr. Conoily,
to which, if they should not listen, they would be very apt to
allege it was owing to their hearing from this Province.
It is impossible to tell what will be the consequence of the Vir
ginia operations. I still hope they will not be able to bring on a
war. I think Lord Dunmore must soon see the necessity of peace.
Clair, -Eneas Muckay, William Amberson, John Shannon, Eichard Butler,
and George- Aslit.'n. They recount the annoyances they and others had
suffered because of Conolly's oppressive flcls—such as pressing of horses
from their owners, threatening to send various parties in irons to Virginia,
searching houses, assaults upon 1'ennsylvanians, killing of sheep and hogs,
and taking other property, ronfincm-nt of citizens in Fort Dunmore, and
other outrages.
342 The St. Clair Papers.
The season is now far advanced, and the country is exhausted of
provisions. Should another body of men be drawn together, they
could not be supported ; and I believe their last exploit has not
given them much stomach for another. There was, indeed, such
confusion amongst the troops, and dissension amongst the officers,
that had they met with any number of the enemy, they must cer
tainly have been cut off. Preparations, however, are making, and
his Lordship is hourly expected. The 10th of August, which was
the time your Honor fixed for keeping up the rangers, was passed
before your letter reached me ; but as you were pleased to gay their
Standing till the 19th of September would depend upon that intelli
gence you might receive from Captain Thomson and myself, we
thought it best to continue them, being both of opinion that, at this
time, it was very necessary, it being, in some measure, the crisis of
the dispute with the Shawanese ; and that great numbers of people
are now gone down to bring back their families, which they removed
when they thought themselves in more immediate danger.
I am sorry I troubled your Honor with my foolish grievances. I
hope I shall always feel the spirit of the station I may be called to
act in ; but particular circumstances, I believe, had, in that case,
set it rather too much on edge. I will not often offend in the same
manner. I must do Mr. Caret the justice to say he is a very good
man, and would fill that or most other places with reputation.
An express arrived a day or two ago from Detroit. Mr. Conolly
had applied to the commanding officer at that post to stop the trade
with the Shawanese; but this he refuses, both as they have no pros
pect of war, and that for such a step he must have the orders of the
Commander-in-Chief at least. He says all the Indians in that coun
try seem to be peaceably disposed. A letter by the same messenger,
from a merchant at Detroit to a merchant at Pittsburgh, gives a
quite contradictory account of matters ; says the Indians in that
country will all join the Shawanese ; that some of them have come
in from the frontiers of Virginia, and have brought scalps; that the
general rendezvous is appointed on the Wabash, and that they ex
pect but a very short time to have any intercourse with them, and
desires him to write to Simons, at Lancaster, not to send the goods
he had ordered.
This moment I have heard from Pittsburgh that Mr. Spear's and
Mr. Butler's goods, that were going to Appleby, arc seized by Mr.
Conolly's orders ; and that Mr. Butler, with three young men, his
assistants, are in confinement in the common guard-house ; and that a
woman who kept house for Mr. Butler has been drummed all around the
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 343
town, for the great crime of going to see him in his distress. This
is a degree of tyranny and oppression beyond every thing that has
yet happened. I shall be able to give you a more circumstantial
account to-morrow, when Captain Thomson will be here, who, I un
derstand, was present when it happened. It will oblige me to put
off my journey to Appleby, as all my stores, provisions, etc., were
with Mr. Butler's goods.
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Penn.
Ligonier, AuguM 27, 1774.
Sir :—The very extraordinary news from Fort Pitt, that I men
tioned in my letter of the 25th, proves too true. Captain Thomson
was there, and informs me that Mr. Butler was not only made a
prisoner, but treated with every instance of in.sult and abuse. The
crime it seems they arc charged with, is a suspicion of trad
ing with the enemy Indians ; but for this there can not be the least
foundation, as their destination was no secret, and I had given pub
lic notice, in writing, of the design of laying out a town up the
river, and the time when. It seems this is the act of Captain Aston,
Conolly being gone to meet Lord Dunmore ; but, in truth, it is the
act of Mr. Campbell, who is their Counsel-General, and whose plan
the removing any of the trade from Pittsburgh broke in upon.
Captain Thomson ottered any security they pleased to demand, but
they would accept of none, and for some time would not permit any
of their acquaintance to visit them, and jostled Mr. Smith and Mr.
Mackay out of the fort in the most insulting manner imaginable.
The treatment these people have met with, for a length of time, has
been sufficient to break their spirit ; but it has not succeeded, and
those at that place, who are friends of this Province, will meet me
at Appleby to-morrow, and are making up another cargo, that they
may have something to keep the Indians easy that will be there.
^Eneas Maceay to Arthur St. Clatr.
Pittsburgh, 4th Sept., 1774.
My Dear Sir:—On my return to this place, last Friday evening, I
received the disagreeable information of two friendly Delaware In
dians being massacred on their way from this place to Mr. Croghan's,
in cool blood, by notorious villians that premeditated the matter be
fore hand, and stationed themselves behind brush near the road
344 The St. Clair Papers.
side upon the occasion. It is impossible to discover the murderers at
this time, and much more so to bring them to condign punishment,
because they have all the force and power the place can afford in
their favor, but there is strong presumption for pointing out the per.
pctrators by name.
Happily for this place, about an hour after the murder was com
mitted, Lieut. -Colonel Angus McDonald,1 of Virginia, arrived here,
with a small party escorting stores for the intended expedition
against the Shawanese, and was greatly exasperated at the authors
of that cruel murder, and exerted himself both as an honest man
and a man of experience and judgment, in order to repair the dam
age done to our friendly Indians, and promised them further satis
faction on my Lord Dunmoie's arrival here, who is expected hero in
a few days. Colonel McDonald has no other business to detain him
here at this time, but his own humane disposition to protect both
the friendly Indians and the unhappy inhabitants of this place from
the insults of the militia, so long the oppressors of this quarter, now
under the command of George Aston, and I may say Walter Gra
ham, two of the greatest miscreants that ever drew the breath of
life, except the black gang that are influenced by their example
and counsel. Because Col. McDonald signifies his disapprobation
of their hellish plots and conduct, he is hourly insulted and threat
ened by them, as well as we are, although their superiors in every
degree. Matters must soon come to a crisis, for, notwithstanding
the repeated acts of tyranny we have already experienced, what we
now feel far surpasses all.
We dare not venture to enjoy the comfort of peaceable rest or
sleep at night for fear of our houses being broke open about our
ears, and our persons maltreated. As to poor Mr. Butler, he looks
upon himself in hourly danger of his life, although still confined in
their common guard-house, and Col. McDonald is greatly distressed
that it is entirely out of his power to render him the least relief, for
they will obey no orders from him, and the very advertisements he
put up on the gates of the fort, offering £50 reward to any person
that would discover the murderers of the Indians, although given
in charge by himself to the officers then upon guard, and also to
the sentries then upon duty, these advertisements were pulled off
and destroyed in the same night.
I am greatly concerned to hear that Mrs. St. Clair is so indisposed.
I hope by this time she found relief, which, I pray God, may be the
1 It would seem hy this that McDonald had been promoted from major to
lii'ntsmuit-colonul, after his arrival in the West.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 345
case. My Lord Dunmore is expected here about the middle of this
week, when I wish, from my heart, Mrs. St. Clair's state of health,
and other circumstances, would admit of your waiting on his Lord
ship.
Arthur St. Clair to Joseph Shipped, Jr.
Ligonier, October 17, 1774.
Sir:—Having accidentally met with my friend, Mr. MacKay, at
this place, I take the liberty to introduce him to you. He has an
answer to the messages the Governor sent to the Shawanese and
Delawares not unfriendly, but which you will very well under
stand.1 Mr. MacKay is one of the magistrates that was sent to
Virginia. He is a warm friend to this Government, and has some
idea of his own importance. I wish you would please to introduce
him to the Governor, and let him tell his story. I need not tell
you how far a little attention will go with people of a certain char
acter; but this you may depend on, he is an upright, honest man.
Excuse my mentioning it, but these gentlemen's expenses on that
Virginia trip should certainly be paid them. I know, however, he
will not mention it, nor would he forgive me if he knew that I had
done it. I don't know how it is, but I am very apt to get into mat
ters I have no sort of business with, and which, indeed, does not
become me.
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Pexx.
Hanna's Town, November 2, 1774.
Dear Sir:—A hasty opportunity just offers whilst we are in an
adjourned court, and as the person is returning, I will beg the favor
that you will send us the last taxation and insolvent acts, neither
of which we have, and have occasion for at this present juncture,
and our board can not do business without the taxation act.
We have no news of Lord Dunmore that can be depended on,
since his departure from Hockhocking for the Shawanese town ; but
a report prevails that Colonel Lewis has been attacked at the mouth
of the Kenawha, and had one hundred and twenty men killed and
wounded, notwithstanding which he got the better of the Indians.*
1 The answer hero mentioned has not been found.
•Lord Dunmore loft "Williamsburg, Virginia, July 10, 1774, for the fron
tiers, reaching Fredericksburg on the fifteenth, and Winchester some days
after. Here he remained some timo, to get in order as many men as possi-
346 The St. Hair Papers.
I hope I shall soon be able to send you some authentic intelligence
of the operations ot the Virginia troops, and request you will exble
for service agamst the savages. Such as were raised in the counties of
Frederick, Berkeley, and Dunmore, were put under command of Adam
Stephen as Colonel. About the end of August, they marched for Pittsburgh,
accompanied by his Lordship. In September, while Dunmore was in the
last mentioned place, he succeeded in getting together a few individuals of
the different nations of Indians living beyond the Ohio River, to hold a
treaty with them. They promised to meet him at the mouth of the Hockhocking
River to make peace. Captain William Crawford had returned
homo from building the fort at Wheeling, and having received a Major's
commission, again moved down the Ohio, this time at the head of five hun
dred men. He marched by land, while Lord Dunmore, with seven hundred
men, floated down the river. The army reached Wheeling, September
30th, and Crawford was dispatched with his detachment of five hundred to
erect a stockade at the mouth of the Hockhocking—Dunmore arriving with
the residue of the army in time to take part in its construction. Mean
while, Colonel Lewis, with the southern division of the army, was moving
down the Great Kanawha. It had been determined by his Lordship to have
that officer, on his arrival upon the Ohio, move up stream and join him at
the mouth of the Hockhocking. The savages who, at Fort Pitt, promised to
meet Dunmore down the Ohio, with additional members of their respective
tribes, failed to arrive. Only two chiefs made their appearance, and both
these were Delaware*. But that nation, it was well understood, was not
hostile; so no treaty could bo made with the enemy.
At this time, Dunmore was ignorant as to whether Lewis had reuclvd the
Ohio or not, a message sent by him having arrived at the mouth of the
Great Kanawha in advance of that officer. Another express was thereupon
dispatched, which, on the eighth of October, found him at Point Pleasant
(the mouth of the Great Kanawha), whero he arrived two days previous.
But it was impossible for him to move up the Ohio to meet Dunmore, on ac
count of the non-arrival of supplies and ammunition, and of a portion of
his troops. Meanwhile, scouts had been sent to Dunmore by him, who re
turned 0:1 the thirteenth, with an order from his Lordship to march directly
toward the Shawaneso towns on the Scioto, and join him at a certain point
on the way. Governor Dunmore now put his division in motion for the
same destination. On his way to the Indian villages, ho was overtaken by
a courier from Lewis, acquainting him with the hard-fought battle of the
tenth of October, at Point Pleasant, where his army contended all day long
with a largo forco of Shawanese and other savages, only to claim the victory
at nightfall, after a severe loss in killed and wounded. On tho seventeenth,
Lewis crossed the Ohio, and took up his line of march for the Scioto, to join
Dunmore.
His Lordship was met, before he reached the Indian villages, with a depu
tation from the enemy, anxious for an accommodation; for a peace 1 ad al
ready been conquered by the Virginians, at a sacrifice of many vnluablo
lives, in the battle at Point Plea-ant. So the Governor found little difficulty
in arranging for a treaty. But the arrival of Lewis and his gallant troops,
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 347
cuse this scrawl, which I am obliged to make, surrounded by a
number of not the best bred men you ever saw, one of whom is
peeping over my shoulder.
The proclamation has done some good already.1
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Penn.
Ligonier, December 4</i, 1774.
Sir:—The war betwixt the Indians and Virginiaus is at last over.
I promised myself the pleasure of giving your Honor the earliest
account of its issue, but I have not yet been able to get at a true .
state of the Treaty of Peace ; a peace, however, is certainly made
with the Shawanese, one condition of which is the return of all
property and prisoners taken from the white people, and for the
performance of it they have given six hostages.2 The Mingoes that
live upon Scioto did not appear to treat, and a party was sent to
destroy their towns, which was effected, and there are twelve of them
fresh from the red field of conflict, breathing revenge against the savages,
was an element difficult to control. However, no order of Dunmore was
intentionally disobeyed by Lewis, who was commanded to return to Point
Pleasant. A peace was negotiated by Dunmore with the Shawanese,
which put an end to the war.—Bidterfield's Washington-Crawford Letters,
p. 96-99; •This was dated October 12, 1774, and was intended to counteract the ef
fect of one issued by Lord Dunmore, at Pittsburgh. September 17th. (See
letter from St. Clair to Penn, December 4, 1774, post.) It required all per
sons west of the Laurel Hill to retain the settlements made under the Pro
vince of Pennsylvania, and to pay due obedience to the laws of that Gov
ernment; also, all magistrates and other officers were to proceed as usual in
the administration of justice, etc.
2 The treaty wus entered into at what was called "Camp Charlotte," in
what is now Pickaway county, Ohio, whither Lord Dunmore had marched
his army from the mouth of the Hockhecking. The Shawanese villages
were in the immediate vicinity. The terms of the agreement were these:
The Shawanese were to give up all the prisoners in their possession ever
taken by them in that and previous wars with the white people; aTso, all
negroes and all the horses stolen or taken by them since the war of 1763.
No Indian, for the future, was to hunt on the east side of the Ohio, nor any
white man on the west side, as it was acknowledged that it had been the
cause of disturbances. As a guarantee that the Shawanese would perform
their part of the agreement, they gave up four of their chief men to be kept
as hostages, who were to be relieved yearly, or as they might choose.
348 The St. Clair Papers.
now prisoners in Fort Pitt.1 It is probable, from these circumstances,
we shall have no more trouble with them, and things have come to
1 The Mingoes did not like the terms agreed upon between Lord Dunmore
and the Shawanese, though their chief, Logan, sent in his acquiescence in
his world-renowned speech. But his chm determined to run away, and thus
avoid giving their assent to the agreement. What happened them is best
related by one who took part in pursuing them:
"The Shawanese have complied with the terms [of the treaty], but the
Mingoesdid not like the conditions, and had a mind to deceive us; but Lord
Dunmore discovered their intentions, which were to slip off while we were
settling matters with the Shawanese. The Mingoes intended to go to the
lakes [Lake Krie]. and take their prisoners with them and their horses which
they had stolen.
" Lord Dunmore ordered myself, with two hundred and forty men, to set
out in the night. We were to march to a town about forty miles distant
from our camp, up the Scioto, where we understood the whole of the Min
goes were to rendezvous upon the following day, in order to pursue their
journey. . . .
" Because of the number of Indians in our camp, we marched out of it,
under pretense of going to Hockhocking [where Fort Gower had been
erected] for more provisions. Few knew of our setting off anyhow, and
none knew where we were going to until the next day. Our march was
performed with as much speed as possible. We arrived at a town called the
Salt-Lick Town [within the present limits of Franklin county, Ohio], the
ensuing night, and at daybreak we got around it with one-half our force, and
the remainder were sent to a small village half a mile distant. Unfortu
nately, one of our men was discovered by an Indian, who lay out from the
town some distance by a log, which the man was creeping up to. This
obliged the man to kill the Indian. This happened before daylight, which
did us much damage, as the chief part of the Indians made their escape in
the dark; but we got fourteen prisoners, and killed six ot the enemy, wound
ing several more. We got all their baggage and horses, ten of their guns,
and two white prisoners. The plunder sold for two hundred pounds sterling,
besides what was returned to a Mohawk Indian that was there. The whole
of the Mingoes were ready to start, and were to have set i ut the morning
wo attacked them. Lord Dunmore has eleven prisoners and has returned
the rest to the nation. The residue are to be returned upon compliance with
his Lordship's demands."—Major William Crawford to Washington, in the " Washington-Crawford Letters," p. .r)4-!)6.
The destruction of the Salt-Lick Town, by Major Crawford, was the only
actual fighting done by that part of the army which was under the com
mand of Lord Dunmore in person. It was the last fighting done by Craw
ford until the Revolutionary War came on, in which he took an active part;
but, in leading a force from Western Pennsylvania and North-western Vir
ginia, in 178:2, against the hostile Wyandots upon the Sandusky river, he
-was taken prisoner and tortured to death by the Delawares, within the
present limits of Wyandot county, Ohio. —Crawford's Campaign Against
Sandusky. By C. AV. Butterfield. Cincinnati: Kobert Clarke & Co., 1873.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc 349
a much better cud than there was any reason to have expected.
But our troubles here are not yet over. The magistrates appointed
by Lord Dunmore, in this country, seem determined to enforce the
jurisdiction of Virginia, and have begun with arresting one of your
Honor's officers.
The 12th of November, Mr. Conolly sent a warrant for Mr. Scott
to appear before him, or the next justice, to answer for a number
of offenses committed by him under a pretended authority from
Pennsylvania. The warrant Mr. Scott did not choose to pay any
regard to, and the same evening a number of armed men came to
his house to take him by force to Fort Burd.1 There he found Lord
Dunmore, Mr. Campbell, and Mr. Peuticost, ready to sit in judg
ment upon him. Much passed amongst them, but the event was
that he was obliged to enter into recognizance, with two sureties,
to appear at the next court, to be held at Pittsburgh, for the county
of Augusta, on the 20th day of December, if the court should
happen to be held there that day, or at any further day, when the
court should be held there, to answer for having acted as a magis
trate of Pennsylvania, contrary to Lord Dumnore's proclamation,2 or
•Fort Burd, it will bo remembered, was at Bodstone, now Brownsville,
Pennsylvania.
2 Lord Dun mores proclamation was, in effect, that the rapid settlement
mado to the westward of the Alleghany Mountains by His Majesty's sub
jects within the course of a few years had become an object of real concern
to His Majesty's interests in that quarter; that the Province of Pennsyl
vania had unduly laid claim to a very valuable and extensive quantity of
His Majesty's territory, and the executive part of that Government, in con
sequence thereof, had most arbitrarily and unwarrantably proceeded to abuse
the laudable adventures in that part of His Majesty's dominions, by many
oppressive and illegal measures in discharging of their imaginary autherity,
and that the ancient claim laid to that country by the Colony of Virginia,
founded in reason upon pre-occupying, and the general acquiescence of all
persons, together with the instructions he had lately received from His Maj
esty's servants, ordering him to take that country under his administration;
and as the evident injustice manifestly offered to His Majesty, by the immod
erate strides taken by the Proprietors of Pennsylvania, in prosecution of the
wild claim to that country, demanded an immediate remedy, he did thereby,
in His Majesty's name, require and command all of His Majesty's subjects
west of the Laurel Hill to pay a due respect to bis said proclamation, thereby
strictly prohibiting the execution of any act of authority on behalf of the
Province of Pennsylvania, at their peril, in that country. A counter proc
lamation was issued by Governor Penn, October 12, 1774. (See the previous
letter—St. Clair to Penn, November 2, 1774.) r
350 The St. Clair Papers.
be committed to jail. He chose the recognizance, the circumstances
of his family and health rendering the other very inconvenient.
There is no doubt that the recognizance is in itself a mere nul
lity, but, after what has been done already, it is hard to say what
may not be attempted, and it is very certain the people Lord
Dunmore has clothed with authority pay little regard to the rules
of law or the dictates of reason. It would be exceedingly satis
factory if your Honor would please to give us directions for our
conduct, and this case of Mr. Scott requires it particularly. I have
wrote to Mr. Wilson,1 of Carlisle, for his advice, fearing it would
]xi impossible to know your mind in proper time, and for the nec
essary legal steps. I believe he may be depended on, but it is very
doubtful if his answer can arrive before the time they have appointed
for their court ; at any rate, we must endeavor to prevent a trial
until you can have au opportunity of writing, if it should be by re
moving the indictment to Williamsburgh.
I account it a fortunate circumstance that they began with Mr.
Scott, who, with a great deal of firmness, possesses a good share of
natural understanding. In the course of an examination, which
continued near two hours, he told Lord Dunmore that he had only
one short answer to all his questions, which might save his Lordship
a good deal of trouble, " that he acted under commission from your
Honor and in obedience to your proclamation." His Lordship was
pleased to reply, that you had no right to give any such commission
or authority to issue such proclamation. Mr. Scott told him that
was a matter of which he was not a proper judge, and would abide
by the consequences.
I am sorry to be obliged to give your Honor so much trouble on
so very disagreeable a subject, but I hope 'the time is not far distant
when it will be put to an end.
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Penn.
Hannastown, Dec. 18</i, 1774.
Sir:—Being this far on my way to Pittsburgh, I found a consta
ble from Virginia here who had made two men prisoners by virtue
of a warrant from Major Smallman. The offense they had been
guilty of, it seems, was assisting the constable in executing a judi1
James Wilson, lawyer, and intimate friend of St. Clair's. In a letter
ante, he is referred to as having made an argument in behalf of the claims
of Pennsylvania.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 351
cial warrant. Mr. Hanna had committed the constable, which I
could not help approving of; but as there is some danger of his
being rescued by force, I have advised the sending him to Bedford,
or, at least, the sheriff should remove him to some other place pri
vately.
The Court, it is said, will certainly be held at Pittsburgh on the
20th. I am personally threatened, but I promised Mr. Scott to be
there at that time, to give him some countenance, at least, if I can
not give him assistance at his trial. I had the honor to give you
an account of his arrest a short time ago.1
Your Honor will judge from these circumstances what a shocking
situation we are in; to add to the distress of which, the militia are
plundering the people within the neighborhood of Pittsburgh of the
very subsistence for their families.
I met with this opportunity of writing accidentally, and would
not let it slip, as I thought it of consequence that you should be
early acquainted with what is passing.
James Cavet to Arthur St. Clatr axd Others.'
Pittsburgh, May 13, 1775.
Gentlemen :—I am sorry that it is so much in my power to doubt
the Governor's attention to this unhappy country. We have not
1 In his previous letter of December 4, 1774.
* The time between the date of this letter and the previous one was largely
taken up in the Western Country with stirring events, caused by the con
flict of jurisdiction between Pennsylvania and Virginia concerning which
so much has already been given. The proceedings o{ the Pennsylvania
Provincial Council for one day, will give an idea of the troubles that beset
the trans-Alleghany region during the winter of 1774-75:
" At a Council held at Philadelphia, on Wednesday, 25th January, 1775,
present, the Honorable John Penn, Esq., Governor; William Logan, An
drew Allen, Benjamin Chew, Edward Shippen, Junior, and James Tilghman,
Esquires. • 1 he Governor laid before the Board two papers delivered to him by
C'sijitain St. Clair, which were read, and are as follows, viz:
" Westmoreland County, ss:
" Before us, Robert Hanna and Arthur St. Clair, Esqs., two of His Maj
esty's Justices for Westmoreland county, personally appeared Samuel
Whitesill, keeper of the jail of the said county, and, being duly sworn,
according to law, deposeth and saith, that, on this instant, 24th of Decem
ber, a number of armed men came to the iail of said county, and ordered
him to open the prison doors, and turn out a certain William Thomas then
352 The St. Clair Papers,
had, since our confinement, the least account from him, and I think
it is beyond doubt he got our packet. Our express is returned, aud
he says he gave the letters to Doctor 1'luuket, at Susquehannab,
who would certainly send them. Our situation, aud that of the
well-affected inhabitants of this place, is become almost intolerable;
it is impossible for any person to conceive the cruel mode of proceed
ings at this place, unless those who are unhappy to be eye-witnesses
thereof. Mr. Smith, in particular, will, (if not by some means pre
vented), in a short time be absolutely ruined. Mr. Hanna and
myself will, at this court, be confined in the guard-room of Fort
Dunmore, if we don't give bail, and God knows whether it will
in his custody on sundry executions; that lie believes a certain "William
Christy and Simon Girty, who seemed to he officers, from their dress, were
at the head of their party. That he, this deponent, refused to deliver his
prisoner, or open the door where he was confined; tliat they then talked of
throwing down the house, and stripping off the roof, on which he (this de
ponent) being afraid of ill consequences, both to his person and property,
did open the door to allow the prisoner to speak to the party, and one of
them rushed in, seized him, and dragged him out, and also turned out a cer
tain William Dawson, who was likewise in his custody on execution; and
and that it was Conolly himself whe laid hands on Thomas and dragged
him out; and further saith not. Samuel Whitesit.l.
"Sworn and subscribed, December 24, 1774, before us.
" Robert Hanna,
"Arthur St. Clair."
" Whereas, I am well informed that certain persons, by written instruc
tions, directed to different people through this country, under the denomina
tion of collectors, are apparently authorized to break open doors, cupboards,
etc., and to commit sundry acts of violence, in order to extort money from
the inhabitants, under the appellation of taxes; these are therefore to ac
quaint all His Majesty's subjects, that, as there can bo no authority legally
vested in any persons, for such acts, at this juncture, that such attempts to
abuse public liberty are unwarrantable, and that all persons have an un
doubted natural, as well as lawful right to repol such violence, and all His
Majesty's subjects are hereby required to apprehend any person whatever,
whe may attempt the seizure of their effects, in consequence of such imag
inary authority, to be dealt with as the law directs.
"Given under my hand at Fort Dunmore, this, 30th day of December
1774. John Conolly."
'• Captain St. Clair, appearing at the Board, and representing that Wil
liam Crawford, Esquire, President of the Court of Westmoreland county,
hath lately joined with the Government of Virginia in opposing the juris
diction of Pennsylvania in that county, tlie Board advised the Governor to
supersede him in his office as justice of the peace and common pleas. A
supersedeas was accordingly ordered to be issued."
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 353
be in our power so to do, for we are informed by some of our
friends that none other will be acceptable but those who will come
into open court and swear they are worth whatever sum is in the
recognizance, and no doubt it will be an enormous sum. Mr. Smith
was this day taken with a writ of one hundred thousand pounds
damages. But I need not descend into particulars ; every part of
their conduct appears that they not only want the jurisdiction of
this quarter, but also to rob every man of his property.
And, gentlemen, it is by your friends here thought advisable that
the sheriff, with a party of fifty men, or thereabouts, should come
up and take us who are in confinement, and also as many of these
rascals as possible, as there will be no strength to oppose you, there
being but eighteen men in Fort. It is surprising what a pusillani
mous temper must prevail amongst the people in general to suffer
the peace and welfare of a whole country to be destroyed by such a
handful of villains. But let the people be called upon by the
sheriff, and certainly they will not refuse to come. If such a step
be thought best, it ought to be managed with secrecy and dispatch.
Pray send oft' the express by Tuesday night to us with advice, for
if we are not taken off we must give bail, if it can be had, and the
thoughts of so doing is no small mortification after hanging out so
long. I have no time to say any more, but acknowledge myself
your humble servant.
P. S. I must beg your pardon and patience also, for writing so
long an epistle, but I had almost forgot to acknowledge the receipt
of your favor of the 9th, and also to inform you that Mr. Scott is
bound by the sheriff to appear here next court, and I suppose will
share the same fate of Hanna and myself.
Arthur St. Clatr to Joseph SnippEn, Jr.
Liqonier, May 18, 1775.
Dear Sir:—I yesterday received the enclosed letter from Mr.
Cavet, with the contents of which I request you will make the Gov
ernor acquainted.1 You see Hanna and he are very uneasy, which
is really not to be wondered at, as they have been now upwards of
three months in confinement, for paying obedience to his Honor's
proclamation, and have not had a single line from any person about
government, or any direction how to conduct themselves. The Gov
ernor in these times must be occupied by objects of much greater
1See the previous letter—Cavet to St. Clair, May 13, 1775.
354 The St. Clair Papers.
magnitude; but I wish he could spare a few minutes for their
affairs, which is truly a business of the last consequence to them,
threatening them with no less than absolute ruin.
We have an account that Lord Dunmore has been obliged to
abandon his government; it is the only piece of good news that has
reached us since the disputes with Great Britain took so serious a
turn ; but I doubt the truth of it.
The Pittsburgh Court is now sitting ; whether they do business or
not, I have not heard. The proposition for the relief of Cavet and
Hanna, though I believe it practicable enough, I would do nothing
in without the Governor's concurrence, as it might be attended with
serious consequences.
Yesterday, we had a county meeting, and have come to resolu
tions to awe and discipline, and have formed an Association, which
I suppose you will soon see in the papers. God grant an end may
be speedily put to any necessity for such proceedings. I doubt their
utility, and am almost as much afraid of success in this contest as
of being vanquished.
Arthur St. Claie to Governor Penn.
Ligonier, May 25, 1775.
Sir:—An express from Pittsburgh, with despatches for your
Honor, having called here this morning, I embrace the opportunity
to inform you that a commission is come up from Virginia to
collect the Colony duty on all peltries exported froni that place,
and that notice has been given to the traders there to conduct them
selves accordingly. I think they will find some way to evade pay
ing it, and those that are not yet come in will certainly carry them
past. Tis a shocking thing that people should be obliged to such
shift, and the trade of the Province be destroyed, by the obstinacy
and caprice of one man. I flatter myself, however, it will not be
of long continuance. Lord Dunmore's seizing the magazine has
raised such a ferment that he will not probably visit the frontiers
soon,1 and by the prorogation of his Assembly, the invasion law,
under which it seems the garrison of the fort was kept up, will ex
pire ; I think the ninth of next month is its period, and I am in
formed Conolly is preparing to decamp.
1 Before news arrived of the battle of Lexington, Lord Dunmore had or
dered (April 21st) the powder belonging to Virginia to bo taken from the
public store at Williamsburg, and placed on board an armed vessel in the
river. This caused great excitement, which was increased by the news from
Lexington.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 355
We have nothing but masters and committees all over the coun
try, and every thing seems to be running into the wildest confusion.
If some conciliating plan is not adopted by the Congress, America
has seen her golden days , they may return, but will be preceded
by scenes of horror. An association is formed in this county for
defense of American hberty. I got a clause added, by which they
bind themselves to assist the civil magistrates in the execution of
the laws they have been accustomed to be governed by.1
Hanna and Cavet are still pressing me to do something for their
relief, and are very desirous they should be brought off by force ;
their project was, that writs should be issued against them, and that
the sheriff should take a posse with him and bring them away, and
make prisoners at the same time of their persecutors. I believe 'tis
very practicable, but I gave them to know that without positive di
rections from your Honor I would advise no such step, and that I
thought you would not direct any that might have a tendency to
embroil the Provinces. However, it is no wonder that they are un
easy ; they have been long confined, and must have suffered consid
erably by it.
Lord Dunmore has issued a proclamation, disclaiming the pro
ceedings of the surveyors in taking entries of lands, and ordering
them to return the money received for them, but has spared their
names ; but I have seen none of them ; they were spirited away, it
seems, as fast as they appeared.
If the Fort should be evacuated next month, pray, sir, would it
be proper to endeavor to get possession of it, or to raze it? That
may possibly be done by themselves.
Mr. Conolly has sent out for some of the principal men of tho
Indians to come and receive the prisoners, and the Pittsburgh com
mittee has petitioned the General Congress to hold a treaty with the
Western tribes.
1This clause was the fourth one, and read as follows:
"ith. That we do not wish or advise any innovations, but only that things
may be restored to, and go on in the same way as before the era of the
Stamp Act, when Boston grew great, and America was happy. As a proof
of this disposition, we will quietly submit to the laws by which wo have
been accustomed to be governed before that period, and will, in our several
or associate capacities, be ready when called on to assist the civil magistrate'
to carry the same in execution."
This was the first step taken by St. Clair as a Revolutionary patriot. It
shows a conservative spirit, and an unwillingness to do any thing that might
tend to anarchy or violations of just laws.
/"
356 . St. Clair Papers.
Valentine Crawford to George Washington.1
Jacob's Creek, June 24, 1775.
Dear Sir : —I am very sorry to inform you I received a letter
from Mr. Cleveland, of the seventh of June, wherein he seems to be
in a good deal of distress. Five of the servants have run away,
and plagued him much. They got to the Indian towns, but by the
exertions of one Mr. Duncan, a trader, he has got them again. He
has sent three of them up by a man he had hired, with a letter to
my brother William or myself, to sell them for you; but the man
sold them himself somewhere about Wheeling, on his way up, and
never brought them to us. He got £20 Pennsylvania currency for
them, and gave one year's credit. This was very low, and he did
not receive one shilling. This was contrary to Cleveland's orders,
as the latter wanted to raise some cash by the sale to purchase pro
visions. I think it would be advisable, if the men they arc sold so
low to are not good, to take them from them, and sell them again.
But the man shall not be stopped for want of money, for I will
furnish him, and will assist Mr. Simpson in getting started as quick
as possible with his canoe and provisions. Mr. Cleveland left some
corn at Mr. Simpson's when he went down, and I will get him some
flour to load his canoe.
Mr. Cleveland sunk a canoe going down, and lost five or six casks
of corn and several other things. James McCormick and Charles
Morgan found a bag of clothes and several other things, a few days
after, as they were going down the river. They delivered them to
Mr. Cleveland again, as they knew they belonged to his company,
by some pajiers they found in the bundle.
Cleveland does not mention of his getting any but the three
servants he sent to be sold, but Mr. Duncan told me yesterday, at
Fort Dunmore, that he got the whole five who ran away. Dr.
Craik's manager has had very bad luck ; for, in the canoe that was
sunk, he lost all his papers. He was much at a loss to find his
land, or at least, to find the corner trees; but I have sent him all
the plats and junctions I had from the doctor; and lest a letter I
have written to the latter should miscarry, you can inform him of
that fact. I hope to be down in Fairfax as soon as ever I reap my
harvest, and will then settle all my accounts with you.
We have chosen committees out here, and arc raising an inde
pendent company—regulating matters the best we can ; but an un1
The reason why this letter is here inserted, is given in a note to the next
letter—St. Clair to Shippen, July 12, 1775.
Correspondence, Addresses, etc. 357
happy confusion happened the other day. The Pennsylvanians
came to Fort Pitt with the sheriff and about twenty men, and took
Major Conolly about midnight, and carried him as far as Ligonier,
the very night before we were to have the talk with the Indians.1
Several of the Pennsylvania traders, by the Indians' story, were
endeavoring to put ill into their minds. On Major Conolly being
taken, the people of Chartier's came in a company and seized three
of the Pennsylvania magistrates, who were concerned in taking off
Conolly — George Wilson, Joseph Spear, and Devereux Smith.
They were sent in an old leaky boat down to Fort Fincastle under
guard. Our court,2 however, had no hand in this. It was done by
a mob or set of Conolly's friends who live on Chartier's Creek.
The members of our committee wrote a very spirited letter to the
gentlemen of the Pennsylvania committee, demanding Conolly
back. All signed it, and sent it with an express. On its receipt,
they immediately sent Major Conolly back. Things now seem to
be a little moderated. I believe the Indians want nothing but
peace ; but it seemed to alarm them very much to hear our great
man was stolen. Indeed, it alarmed us all, as Major Conolly was
the man that had transacted all the business with them before. No
other person was so able to settle business with them as he. I hope
you will excuse the length of my letter.
P. S. —Please« give my compliments to Mr. Lund Washington.
Tell him his people are well, and in a very good way to make a good
crop of corn."
1In the treaty made at "Camp Charlotte," in October, 1774, between
Lord Dunmore and the Shawanese, it was arranged that u supplemental
treaty should be held in the ensuing spring, at Pittsburgh, llis Lordship
was to inform the chiefs by a message when it would suit him to meet them
there, to settle somo minute matters that could not well bo attended to at
the first meeting. Trouble with the Colony put it out of the power of Dunmore
to again visit Fort Pitt. So Major Conolly was deputed to take
charge of affairs with the Indians. Only a few Del a wares and Mingoes
could be induced to attend upon his call. While engaged in preparations
to have a "talk" with the assembled chiefs, he was arrested as above
stated.
•That is, the Courts of West Augusta—a Virginia Court held at "Fort
Dunmore," Pittsburgh—the justices being appointed by the Virginia Gov
ernment. The records of this Court have been preserved. In the fall of
1 77G, the District of West Augusta was separated from Augusta County,
and three counties—Yohogania, Monongalia and Ohio—erected out of it.
The Court of West Augusta was continued as the Court of Yohegania, but
the place of its meeting was removed from Pittsburgh.
2From Th* WinhingtonCraiojord Letters, pp. 101, 103.
558 The St. Clair Papers.
Arthur St. Clair to Joseph Shippen, Jr.
Ligonier, July 12th, 1775.
Dear Sir : —In my last I gave you an account of the taking of
Mr. Conolly, and mentioned some of the consequences I appre
hended from it.1 They have since been disagreeable enough to Mr.
Smith, Mr. Speare, and Colonel Wilson, who were immediately
made prisoners by way of reprisal, and sent off in a flat to Wheel
ing, where they were detained till the news of Conolly's return,
and in the mean time were exposed to every species of insult and
abuse. An attempt has since been made to carry off the sheriff,
but miscarried, which probably saved us another visit at court, as
they found we were provided for them, but I have certain informa
tion that process is in the hands of the Virginia sheriff against our
sheriff aud many of the magistrates, and the Committee at Pitts
burgh have resolved that Lord Dunmore's proclamation resecting
the country west of Laurell Hill shall be complied with, so that we
may exjiect fine work.
Whilst Connolly was at my house endeavoring to procure bail, I
treated him with a good deal of civility, by which, with the help
of a cheerful glass, I got at some of his designs. He is immediately
to go England with White Eyes and some other Delaware chiefs, to
solicit for them a confirmation of the country which they now live
in, great part of which is within the bounds of this Province, and
Lord Dunmore is to back it with all his interest. They are to repre
sent to the King's ministers that they have received the Christian
religion, have got notions of property, and in a "great measure
changed their way of life, aud can not change their place of abode
as they have heretofore done, and which (hey must again do if
Pennsylvania is allowed to extend beyond the Ohio. Ridiculous as
this may appear, I thought proper to mention it, for though the
Proprietary's rights can not be injured by any such proposal, it may
raise difficulties in the way of a future purchase or further settle
ment of the Province. Lord Dunmore has also some design on the
Islands in Delaware, and he (Conolly) has been procuring all the
information he could respecting them ; if you please acquaint the
Governor if you think it worth while.
'The letter referred to has not been found. In its place is given tlie one
preceding—Valentine Crawford to George Washington, June 21, 1775 —
covering, as to Conolly's arrest, the fame ground, probably, as the missing
one from St. Clair.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 359
I have not a word to say about public matters, the people are all
mad, and I hate even to think of the consequences. Heaven restore
peace to this distracted country !
William Smith to Arthur St. Clair.
Bedford, Sept. 4th, 1775.
Dear Sir:—I have just seen yours of the 2d inst. to my brother.
Copies of the calculations by Mr. Rittenhouse and myself, signed
with our names, were sent to Virginia. I wish I had known that
they would have been of any use on the present occasion.1 But you
know the line or parallel to Delaware, at five degrees distant, crosses
the Ohio near the mouth of Charles Creek,2 and includes Fort Pitt,
near six miles—of this there can not be the least shadow of a doubt.
If the Virginia delegates choose to attend to this point, we shall en
able Mr. Wilson to satisfy them at Philadelphia. In the meantime,
it is but just that the possession of Fort Pitt should continue where
it was before, viz., under the government of Pennsylvania.
The Indians, I hope, will have no applications about land mat
ters made to them now. This is not the time for such things.
I am sorry you have had such a bad look-out for foreign flour.
I wish it may fall in my way as I go down to hasten some. God
grant that the Indians may be persuaded to a strict neutrality, and
may not Britons on either side ever employ Indians against Britons,
or make them a sort of arbiters of our differences, if it be possible
to avoid it,3 Mr. [John] Ormsby contracted with Messrs. Fisher,
Carmick, and myself, in the year 1770, for some lands. We have
long since paid his order to Capt. Little for every acre surveyed,
agreeably to the contract, and he sent us down the conveyances as
made to himself from the persons in whose name the lands were
taken up, but when we sent him the conveyance he ought to make
to us, he neglected executing it. I inclose a copy for him to exe
cute, and I beg you will get it done, and take the acknowledgment,
and send it carefully to my brother. I hope Mr. Ormsby will not
decline fulfilling his contract, or force us to any disagreeable meas
ures. We have paid the surveyor, and fulfilled our part in every
respect.
1Why St. Clnjr was desirous of obtaining these copies, appears evident in
his letter to Governor Penn, of September 5, 1775, hereafter given.
* Chartier's Creek.
2Reference is hero made to a treaty with tlie Indians to be held at Pitts
burgh on the 10th of that month.
360 The St. Clair Papers.
Thomas Smith to Arthur St. Clair.
Bedford, Sept. 5th, 1775.
Dear Sir:—I am just favored with yours, and am sorry it is not
in my power to comply with your request ; but I have neither of
the papers or calculations you mention. I have just asked my
brother (who is here), and he has none of them with him. How
far it might be expedient in one point of view for the Congress, yet
to settle even temporary boundaries, might, perhaps, deserve some
consideration. If such a thing could be done with propriety, it
would be of the greatest utility to the peaceable inhabitants in your
county, and I have always thought, since the dispute began, that it
was set on foot by a designing tool, with a more insidious view than
was at first generally imagined, viz., m order to set the Colonies
at variance with one another. Could it be viewed in that light, it
would at presen; have a greater tendency to a speedy settlement
amongst the people themselves of a temporary boundary, without the
interposition of the Congress, than any other argument that could
be used. If they shall judge it proper to intermeddle in the mat
ter at all, and if the Virginia delegate has a real intention of settlbig
it in any reason, the Monongahela will be greatly in favor of
the Virginia, even by Mr. Hooper's map, which I have before mo,
but which 1 Tin not venture to send up without his permission, and
since he made that map, which is done- by actual survey of the Mo
nongahela, he has got the camps of Delawares, by which it appears
that Fort Pitt lies three or four miles farther east than he has placed
it. By comparing his map and your and Bittenhouse's lines, Fort
Pitt is at least four and at most not much above six miles within
this Province, as nearly as I can recollect the distance you made it.
Mr. Hooper may be considered as an undoubted authority on the
side of Virginia. I believe he is a gentleman of candor and veracity,
and you know be was a warm and violent Croghanite at the time
when he made it. I am going to the woods to-morrow morning. I
need not tell you that I write now in haste.
P. S. There is not one barrel of flour in or about town, and Mr.
O'Hara requests you would endeavor to supply yourselves, which he
thinks you can now, after the rain, easily do.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 3G1
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Penn.
Pittsburgh, September 15th, 1775.
Sir : —Curiosity led me to this place, to be present at the treaty
-with the Indians, which was appointed for the 10th instant, and
that I might have it in my power to give you the earliest notice if
any thing happened that appeared necessary for you to be apprised
of. The treaty is not yet opened, as the Indians are not come in,
but there are accounts of their being on their way, and well dis
posed.1 We have, however, been surprised with a maneuver of
the people of Virginia that may have a tendency to alter their dis
position. About one hundred men marched here from Wmchester,
and took possession of the Fort on the 11th, which has so much
disturbed the delegates from the Congress that they have thoughts
of removing to some other place to hold the treaty. They did every
thing in their power to prevent their coming to the Fort, but to no
purpose.2 This step has already, as might naturally be expected,
served to exasperate the dispute between the inhabitants of the
country, and entirely destroyed the prospect of a cessation of our
grievances, from the salutary and conciliating advice of the dele
gates of the respective provinces, in their circular letter ; 3 and they
are so sensible that, if something is not soon done to prevent it, the
dispute must end in open violence ; that they have warmly recom
mended to the Congress, without loss of time to direct a temporary
•Efforts were made, in 1775, to hold a treaty with the Western Indians,
at Pittsburgh. It was proposed that the meeting should take place Septem
ber 10th. To forward the movement, Capt. James Wood was sent beyond
the Ohio to various tribes, inviting them to Pittsburgh at that time. The
object was conciliation, and to obtain their neutrality. The result to the
15th of September is detailed above.
. 2On the 11th of September, Captain John Neville took possession of Fort
Pitt, for the purpose, avowedly, it seems, to "cover and protect the border,"
in the event hestility should be brought on in the Western country with the
Indians, at the instigation of the British. The fears expressed by St. Clair,
and entertained by others, seem not to have been well founded. Neville
took no part in the boundary controversy.
2The continued collisions and disorder at Pittsburgh could not (ail to at
tract the attention of all the patriotic citizens of the two States, and on the
25th of July, 1775, the delegates in Congress united in a circular urging the
people in the disputed region to mutual forbearance. The circular had
these words: " We recommend it to you that all bodies of armed men, kept
up by either party, be dismissed; and that all those on either side who are
in confinement, or on bail, for tukini; part in the content. be discharged."
362 The St. Clair Papers.
line.1 It may be necessary, if that measure meets with your appro
bation, to furnish some of your delegates with the draughts and
calculations respecting the western extent of the province. I take
the liberty to mention this, that, supposing agreeable to you, the
proper officer may be directed to supply them ; that the Congress
may have it in their power to take the matter up, with a prospect
of at least no disadvantage to the Province. I am sensible, Sir,
this is out of my way ; but the regard I have for your interests, and
the gratitude I feel for your favors, must plead my excuse, as they
are my only motives.
1 Although Congress took no authoritative action to settle the boundary
botween the two States, mutual forbearance during the opening scenes of
the Revolution had the effect to allay the excitement concerning the conflict
of jurisdiction. This continued until 1779, when proceedings were com
menced which, finally, ended in an amicable arrangement and the comple
tion of the boundary line. But an element of discord was already removed
by the disappearance of Conolly from Pittsburgh. On the 8th of June,
1775, Lord Dunmore abandoned his palace in Williamsburg, and took refuge
on board a man-of-war. On the 'iijth of July. Conolly left "Fort Dunmore,"
on a visit to his Lordship, already plotting in the interests of
the mother country against the colonies. He never returned; his rule was
at an end, greatly to the relief of South-western Pennsylvania. St. Clair,
who had so ably championed the interests of Pennsylvan n, was soon called
to take part upon a broader stage of action. This letter closed his corre
spondence with Governor Perm.
THE REVOLUTIONARY WAR.
CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN ST. CLAIR AND WASHINGTON,
SCHUYLER, REED, WILSON, AND OTHERS.
Resolutions Adopted at Hanxastown.
"Word reached the inhabitants of the western part of Pennsyl
vania, in the second week of May, 1775, of what the patriots of
Lexington and Concord had dared for liberty on the memorable
19th of April, and they met at Hannastown, on the 16th, to take
into consideration the alarming situation of the country. The fol
lowing resolutions, drawn up by Arthur St. Clair, Esq.,1 were unani
mously adopted :
Resolved, That the Parliament of Great Britain, by several late
acts, have declared the inhabitants of the Massachusetts Bay to be
in rebellion, and the ministry, by endeavoring to enforce those acts,
have attempted to reduce the said inhabitants to a more wretched
state of slavery than ever before existed in any state or country.
Not content with violating their constitutional and chartered priv
ileges, they would strip them of the rights of humanity, exposing
lives to the wanton and unpunishable sport of a licentious soldiery,
and depriving them of the very means of subsistence.
Resolved, That there is no reason to doubt but that the same
system of tyranny and oppression will (should it meet with success
in Massachusetts Buy) be extended to other parts of America; it is
therefore become the indispensable duty of every American, of every
man who has any public virtue or love for his country, or any
bowels for posterity, by every means which God has put in his power,
to resist and oppose the execution of it; that for us we will be ready
to oppose it with our lives and our fortunes. And the better to en
able us to accomplish it, we will immediately form ourselves into
a military body, to consist of companies to be made up out of
the several townships under the following association, which is de
clared to be the Association of Westmoreland County :
1The conservative and temperate character of this declaration at Ilannastown,
to which no exception was taken by any person present on that occa
sion, was in harmony with the loyalty of the views St. Clair held at that
time. These are more fully set forth in a letter written by him a year later
to Lieutenant-Colonel Allen. See p. 375. (86S)
364 The St. Clair Papers.
Possessed with the most unshaken loyalty and fidelity to His
Majesty, King George the Third, whom we acknowledge to be our
lawful and rightful King, and who we wish may long be the be
loved sovereign of a free and happy people throughout the whole
British Empire : we declare to the world, that we do not mean by
this Association to deviate from the loyalty which we hold it our
bounden duty to observe ; but, animated with the love of liberty,
it is no less our duty to maintain and defend our just rights (which,
with sorrow, we have seen of late wantonly violated in many in
stances by wicked ministry and a corrupted Parliament) and trans
mit them entire to our posterity, for which we do agree and asso
ciate together :
1st. To arm and form ourselves into a regiment or regiments,
and choose officers to command us in such proportions as shall be
thought necessary.
2d. We will, with alacrity, endeavor to make ourselves masters
of the manual exercise, and such evolutions as may be necessary
to enable us to act in a body with concert ; and to that end we. will
meet at such times and places as shall be appointed either for the
companies or the regiments, by the officers commanding each when
chosen.
3d. That should our country be invaded by a foreign enemy, or
should troops be sent from Great Britain to enforce the late arbi
trary act* of its Parliament,1 we will cheerfully submit to military
discipline, and to the utmost of our power resist and oppose them,
or either of them, and will coincide with any plan that may be
formed for the defense of America in general, or Pennsylvania in
particular.
4th. That we do not desire any innovation, but only that things
may be restored and go on in the same way its before the era of the
Stamp Act, when Boston grew great and America was happy. As
a proof of this disposition, we will quietly submit to the laws by
which we have been accustomed to be governed before that pe
riod, and will, in our several or associate capacities, be ready when
called on to assist the civil magistrate in carrying the same into ex
ecution.
5th. That when the British Parliament shall have repealed their
late obnoxious statutes, and shall recede from their claim to tax us,
and make laws for us in every instance, or some general plan of
uniou and reconciliation has been formed and accepted by America,
this our Association shall be dissolved ; but till then it shall remain
1 Conditions mentioned by St. Clair in his letter to Lieut.-Colonel Allen
as alone justifying taking up arms. See p. Tt75,
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 365
in full force ; and to the observation of it, we bind ourselves by ev
ery thing dear and sacred amongst men. No licensed murder ! No
famine introduced by law !
Resolved, That on Wednesday, the twenty-fourth instant, the
towuship meet to accede to the said Association, and choose their
officers.1
Colonel St. Clair to President of Congress.
March 2Uh, 1776.
Sir:—I observe that, in the vote of Congress for raising five bat
talions in Pennsylvania, there is no provision made for surgeons'
mates, sergeant-majors, or quartermaster-sergeants. I beg leave to
represent to you that each of these officers is very necessary to a
battalion. Part of a battalion may frequently be detached to a
1 The Assembly of Pennsylvania, on the 30th of June, 1775, passed an act
creating a Council of Safety, whose duties wore the raising of troops, fur
nishing supplies, eU.\, for defense. On the 18th of July, the Council recom
mended the enrolment of all able-bodied men into regiments or battalions,
with proper officers. Agreeably to this, the militia of Westmoreland county
wero enrolled, and Arthur St. Clair was elected Colonel. September 26th,
Council ordered £100 to be sent to Westmoreland county towards the pay
ment of arms, accoutrements, etc.
At a meeting of Council, November 29, 1775—"The commissioners and
assessors of Westmoreland county returned the order sent them some time
past, signed by Benja. Franklin, or Jlichael Hillegas, Esq., Treasurer of this
Board, for one hundred pounds, dated 2!)th September last, and informs this
committee that they have purchased from Colonel St. Clair 100 firelocks for
the use of said county, at 40s. each ; for the payment of them they have
drawn an order on this Board for two hundred pounds; this Committee in
formed them by letter that they would take the said firelocks for the use of
the armed boats, and requested they would get new ones made for their
county, agreeably to the Kesolve of Assembly.
"Resolved, That the committee of accounts do pay Colonel St. Clair two
hundred pounds, and take his note, conditioned to return said money, in case
the above mentioned firelocks are not delivered to this committee; an order
was accordingly drawn in his favor on Thomas Wharton and others, the
committee of accounts, for said sum of two hundred pounds."
January 3d, 1776, Robert Morris, by direction of Congress, waited on the
Council of Safety, and informed them that Congress "had received the
recommendation of the eight gentlemen sent up yesterday, as suitable per
sons to fill the offices of Colonels, and that they agreed to appoint Arti.ur
St. Clair, Esqr., Colonel of the 2d Battalion; John Slieo, Colonel of the 3d
Battalion; Anthony Wayne, Esqr., Colonel of the 4th Battalion; Robt. Alagaw,
Colonel of the 5th Battalion, of the four battalions of Pennsylvania
troops to be raised for the Continental Service." —Proceedings oj Council.
866 The St. Clair Papers.
distance, where it may be impossible for the surgeon to attend them
without neglecting the rest of the regiment. And as to mates being
readily found in Canada, I do assure you it is scarcely possible to
find a person that has any knowledge, either as physician or sur
geon, in that country, some few excepted who have left the army
and settled there. The duty of the adjutant would be insupporta
ble without the assistance of a sergeant-major, and the quartermas
ter-sergeant is also very necessary, as not only the quarters or en
campment of the corps falls under the quartermaster's direction, but
the receiving and issuing the provisions and the care of all the reg
imental stores, which it is impossible one man can at all times exe
cute ; and these men ought to be acquainted with accounts.
I also beg leave to mention to you the necessity of providing
tents for the troops in Canada. The season of year is at hand when
they must occupy other grounds than they have been confined to in
the winter, or be exposed to have their posts insulated, and, perhaps,
carried by a force much inferior to theirs, were they encamped in
one body, or in such manner as to be capable of supporting each
other. And tents will become still more necessary, if there should
be a necessity to attack Quebec in force, which may probably be
the case.1
1 Soon after this letter was written, St. Clair started with his regiment to
Canada. On the 12th April he was at Fort Edward, waiting for Lake
Champlain to open so that boats could descend. Ho was detained until near
the oiose of the month before he reached the command of Major-General
Thomas. On the 10th of May his regiment was at Fort Deschambault.
Three days before his arrival —May 7—a council of officers, presided over
by General Thomas, had voted to retreat to the river Sorel. This was be
cause of the reported arrival of several British vessels at Quebec, and the
disgraceful flight of the American troops from before that place, who left
three hundred sick, cannon and stores in the hands of the enemy. When
General Arnold heard of this decision, he proceeded to Sorel to see if he
could secure a reversal and a return to Deschambault, where there was still
a considerable force. Colonel St. Clair reached the Sorel on the 16th May.
and directly aided in preparing measures for the retreat of the army from
Canada—a measure declared to be necessary by the Commissioners of Ccngress,
unless there was speedy relief,-who wroto to the President of thai
body with great plainness. May 11th, Dr. Benjamin Franklin returned to
Philadelphia to personally present the case to Congress. Samuel Chase and
Charles Carroll, the other Commissioners, wrote from Montreal, May 17, to
President Hancock, "we want words to describe the confusion which provails
through every department relating to the army. Your troops live
from hand to mouth; they have, of late, beer, put to half allowance in sev
eral places, and in some they have been without pork for three or four days
past. Although there is plenty of wheat and flour in the country, it was
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 367
General Thompson1 to Colonel St. Clair.
Camp at Sorel, June, 2, 1776.
Sir : —You are immediately to proceed with the detachment under
your command to Three Rivers, where you will endeavor to surprise
with difficulty that either could be procured a few days ago, for ready spe
cie " "In our present critical situation, few, very few, will accept of the
Continental paper money in pay. A prosperous turn in our affairs would,
we think, give it a currency in that part of the country which we possess, tile
most valuable and plentiful in Canada. We think it impossible to subsist
your forces in Canada in any other manner than by contract
Your Generals are now obliged to bo contractors and commissaries; and
your Commissioners, whe have neither ability nor inclination, are con
strained to act as generals. Such is the confusion which now prevails, and
will prevail till a totally new arrangement takes place, and a strict discipline
is introduced into the army; of the latter you must despair, unless soldiers
can be enlisted for a term of years, ot for the continuance of the war. Tho
enlisting men for a year, or for a less time, occasioned the death of the
brave Montgomery. TJie recent disgraceful flight is the principal source of
all the disorders in your army. The sending soldiers into Canada, whoso
times expire in a month or two after their arrival, is only putting the Colo
nies to an amazing expense, to corrupt and disorder the rest. No duty
must be expected from soldiers whose times are out, let their country stand
ever so much in need of their services; witness the unfeeling flight and re
turn, at this critical juncture, of all the soldiers, and a greater part of the
officers, who are entitled to be discharged."
General Themas was unable to ascertain the strength of his army, such
was the confusion which enlisting men for a shert time created. This offi
cer was taken down with the small-pon, and removed to Chambly, where he
died 2d ,June. Before the 27th May, however, he had, on learning of the
arrival of reinforcements for the enemy, ordered Colonel Maxwell to re
treat from Three Rivers to Sorel. He had also, without consultation with
the other general officers, given orders for the removal of all the artillery
and artillery stores from Sorel. These facts were communicated to the
President of Congress by the Commissioners under date of the 27th May.
They declared General Wooster, who had been invited by General Thomas
tT take command, as totally unfit to conduct the war, and advised his recall.
The Commissioners added that thero was no discipline among the troops,
and cbulcl not be while short enlistments continued. " Your army is badly
paid, and so exhausted is your credit that even a cart can not be procured
without ready money or force The army is in a distressed con
dition, and is in want of the most necessary articles—meat, bread, tents,
shees, stockings, shirts, etc. The greatest part of those who fled from
Quebec left all their bag&nge behind them, or it was plundered by those
whose times were out, and have since left Canada." They added that the
1 See note 1, next page.
368 The St. Clair Papers.
the enemy posted there, making prisoners of as many as possible,
and cutting off all who oppose you ; at the same time you will be
careful to secure yourself a retreat. In executing this order, you
will march to St. FrancisEiver, where a sufficient number of bat
eaux will meet yon, and from thence it is left to your own judgment,
from the information you may receive, to proceed either by laud or
water to Nicolet, and from thence to Three Rivers, or directly from
St. Francis to that place, in whichever way the design of your party
may be best concealed. If you march to Nicolet, it will be proper
to detach one or more bateaux, well armed, to watch the mouth of
the lakes, and prevent any boats or canoes carrying intelligence.
Artillery, ammunition, arms, and public stores must be brought
off, if possible ; but should that be found impracticable, th"v ere to
be destroyed.
I need not point out to you the necessity of your business beirg
army did not exceed four thousand; above four hundred were sick, and
three-fourths hau not yet had the small-pon. Such was the extreme want it
was found necessary to seize flour by force, and give receipts for the quan
tity, tor the payment ot which they had pledged the faith of the United
States. They Had advised this step to prevent a general massacre. "We can
not conceal our concern that six thousand men should be ordered to Canada,
without taking care to have magazines formed for their subsistence, cash to
pay them, or to pay the inhabitants for their labor in transporting the bag
gage, stores, and provisions of the army. We can not find words strung
enough to describe our miserable situation. You will have a faint idea of
it if you figure to yourself an army broken and disheartened, half of it
under inoculation, or other diseases; soldiers without pay, without discipline,
and altogether reduced to live from hand to mouth, depending on the
scouts and precarious supplies of a few half-starved cattle and trifling quan
tities of flour, which have hitherto been picked up in different parts of the
country."
1Brigadier-General William Thompson was a native of Ireland. He em
igrated to America, and settled at Carlisle, Pa., where he died September 4,
1781. He was captain in the cavalry service during the French war in Can
ada, and made the acquaintance of St. Clair in that country at Quebec. He
resided for a time at Pittsburgh, and was one of the purchasers of old Fort
Pitt when it was abandoned by the British. In June, 1775, he was ap
pointed colonel of a regiment of riflemen, joined the American forces at
Cambridge, and, November 10th had a skirmish with the British at Lechmere
Point. He was appointed brigadier in the Continental service, .March
1, 1776; soon after succeeded Lee in command at New York, and in April
was ordered to Canada to join General Sullivan, whe had been placed in
command of that department. He arrived before General Sullivan, and
about the same time as St. Clair with his Pennsylvania reinforcements.
When General Thomas was prostrated with smallpon, in the latter part of
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 369
executed with vigor, and that the most proper time for it is before
day. I wish you success and honor.
May, General Wooster declining to assume the command, General Themp
son, as the ranking efficer, took charge of the forces. At this time the move
ment to Three Kivers, which was made under the order above given, was
planned. The Canadians had variously reported tho British, who had taken
possession of that point after Colonel Maxwell had abandoned it and re
treated to the mouth of the Sorcl, as numbering not more than from three
to eight hundred. This was a misstatement, but the movement would have
been successful against a larger force, if a guide had not misled the Ameri
cans, so that when they arrived at Three Kivers it was broad daylight, and
the enemy, who had been apprised of the attempt, were prepared for them.
General Thompson was himself in command, having been sent by General
Sullivan to reinforce St. Clair, and had the misfortune to be taken prisoner
in the first action. He was permitted to return to Pennsylvania on parole,
but it was two years before he was exchanged. A letter from him to St.
Clair, after his return, will bo found on page 379.
For an account of the battle of Three Kivers, the reader is referred to pp.
18—21 ante. The credit for the successful withdrawal of the American
army from Canada, in the face of a superior British force, thoroughly ap
pointed in every respect, is very largely due to General (then Colonel) St.
Clair. The following extract from a letter of an officer at Fort George to
his friend in New York, taken from the files of* the Neir Hampshire Gazette,
August 3, 1776, will give the reader a striking picture of the condition of
the army as it withdrew to the Isle aux Noix:
" I never knew the fatiguo of a campaign until I arrived at Canada. The
most shocking scenes that ever appeared in a camp were constantly exhib
ited to view. When General Sullivan arrived in Canada, the army was torn
in pieces by sickness and other unaccountable occurrences. A whole regi
ment was not to be found together. General Sullivan, with his usual activ
ity and alertness, collected together a debilitated, dispirited army; tried the
strength of the enemy, who were at least four to one, and performed ono of
the most remarkable retreats that was ever known. No person who was not
present can conceivo a tenth part of the difficulties attending it: the enemy at
our heels; three thousand of our men sick with the small-pox ; these whe were
most healthy like so many walking apparitions; all our baggage, stores, and
artillery to be removed; officers, as well as men, all employed in hauling
cannon, etc. Our loaded bateaux wero all moved up the rapids six miles;
one hundred of them were towed by our wearied men, up to their arm-pits
in water. This was performed in ono day and a half; our sick and baggage
all safely landed at St. John's, and from thence to Crown Point, with the
lo6s of only three cannon, which were but poor ones."
The fightmg was done by Thempson and St. Clair, but General Sullivan,
after the way was pointed out to him by St. Clair, showed great energy in
the conduct of the movement towards Crown Point. Thence, by order of
General Schuyler, the army retired to Ticondcroga.
24
•610 The St. Clair Papers.
Thomas Smith1 to Arthur St. Clair.
Philadelphia, August 3, 1776.
Dear Sir:—I was favored with yours by Colonel Allen, and 1
thank you for that unreserve with which you communicate your
sentiments. I need not say that when I found what turn affairs
were like to take in Canada, I was anxious for my friend. I felt for
your situation before you wrote. I sincerely believe that the badsuccess
there is owing to the cause to which you ascribe it in your let
ters to our common friend,2 for he does me the honor to show me
them sometimes ; he is a fine fellow, but has enemies—created, I
sincerely believe, by his superior talents. Their malice has hitherto
been impotent ; but they are such industrious,, undermining, de
tracting rascals, that I hardly think they will rest till they have got
him out,3 and a ready tool in his place.
I have been in town ever since May. I was then chosen Repre
sentative for our county. Immediately on my coming to town I loll
sick with a very severe bilious colic, which had well nigh done for
me. I relapsed so frequently that I was obliged at last to undergo
a very severe course of physic, which confined me for two months,
and reduced me to a perfect skeleton ; but I have every appearance
of enjoying a more perfect state of health than I have for some
1Thomas Smith, n nntive of Scotland, who camo to America at an early
age, and settled at Bedford, Pa., studied law and became distinguished at the
bar. February 9, 1769, was appointed Deputy Surveyor, and soon after be
came Protbonotary, Clerk of the Court of Quarter Sessions, and Keoordei
of Bedford County. In 1775, was appointed Colonel of the militia, and in
tbo year following was chosen a member of the State Constitutional Con
vention. In 1780, was elected a member of the Continental Congress
From 1791 to 1794, ho was President of the Judicial District of Cumberland,
Mifflin, Huntington, Bedford and Franklin Counties; and from 1794 to 1809,
he was .Judge of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania. He died in Juno of
the last named year. Judge Smith was one of the most intimate friends St.
Clair had; acted as his legal adviser, m which capacity he often told St.
Clair he ought to choose him guardian to look after his finances—so liberal
was St. Clair in all money transactions—and held the same political views.
Although u member of the convention that framed the Constitution of 1776.
he was never reconciled to some of its provisions, and afterward united with
James Wilson and Arthur St. Clair in moving lor a new Constitutional Con
vention.
2 James Wilson, the distinguished statesman and jurist.
2Out of Congress. The opposition succeeded for a time, but Mr. Wilson
was afterwards returned.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 871
years. Hardly was I able to walk about when the convention met.1
I was chosen one of them—a pretty solon you will say. No matter,
we have now sat three weeks, and agreed upon the fundamental
principles of our Government. They are somewhat singular, how
ever. The most of us have not had our judgment warped in favor
of any other, and not a sixth part of us ever read a word on the
subject. We are only to have one Legislative branch, viz: the
Assembly, who are to be chosen annually, and a rotation to take
place every three years. Instead of having a Legislative Council,
it seems we are to have a convention every three, five, or seven
years,2 (it is not yet settled which), who are to inquire into and sup
ply defects, deviations or abuses in the Constitution. In what
manner the executive and judicial are to be chosen I can not
yet say, as we only settled the other points last meeting. I
was in a small minority.2 I believe we might have at least
prevented ourselves from being ridiculous in the eyes of the
world were it not for a few enthusiastic members who are totally un
acquainted with the principles of government. It is not only that
their notions are original, but they would go to the devil for popu
larity, and in order to acquire it, they have embraced levelling
principles, which you know is a fine method of succeeding. Don't,
therefore, be surprised if in the next letter I write to you, I should
inform you that we had passed an Agrarian Law.
With regard to any thing in the civil line that may concern you,
I hardly think the convention will do any thing, but it must rest
over until the government is formed and the supreme executive ap
pointed. Should any thing of the kind come upon the carpet while
I am present, I hope you will not be overlooked. I am in hopes a
temporary line between us and Virginia will be soon settled by the
two conventions. I am one of a committee to confer with their
delegates on the subject. They are authorized by their convention,
and made the proposal—the bearer will inform you what line they
proposed.
Mrs. St. Clair came soon to Bedford after I went up and before
1 The Stato Constitutional Convention of 1776.
2The Council of Censors. The first was chosen by the electors of the
State seven years after the adoption of the Constitution. St. Clair was
elected from Philadelphia, and was one of the most active and influential
members of it.
3 Mr. Smith opposed the Constitution. He found fault especially with
those clauses which put the legislative power in a single branch, and which
restricted the power of the executive.
372 The St. Clair Papers.
you went away. You know there is nothing coming in from the
office ; however, the bearer will mention that matter to you. I
really wish to see you again. I have some reason to hope that you
will soon be advanced to a higher rank.
President of Congress to Arthur St. Clair.
Philadelphia, August 10, 1776.
Sir :—The Congress having yesterday been pleased to promote
you to the rank of Brigadier-General1 in the Army of the Ameri
can States, I do myself the pleasure to enclose your commission,
and wish you happy.
General St. Clalr to the President of Congress.
Camp at Ticonderoga, Sept. 2, 1776.
Sir:—I received your favor of the 10th August, enclosing my
commission as Brigadier-General, and return you thanks for the
trouble you took to transmit it.
I am extremely sensible of the honor conferred upon me by the
appointment, and it shall be my study to convince Congress that
they have not misplaced their confidence.
My most respectful compliments wait upon Mrs. Hancock.
1For some weeks prior to the 9th August, St. Clair had been commanding
a brigade under General Gates, whe had recommended his promotion in
strong terms to Congress. On the 26th July, Colonel Matt. Ogden, in writing
from Ticonderoga to Major Aaron Burr, *aid: "We are in great want of
brigadier-generals—threo at least; I mean for the men whe are now here.
General Arnold will command the water crnft on the lake iu person. There
are three brigades commanded by the Colonels Reed, Stark, and St. Cluir.
The last of these, I sincerely wish, was appointed u brigadier by Congress.
There is no better man. The other two have full enough, already." The
promotion of St. Clair was announced by General Washington in General
Orders August 12th. His brigade was the fourth, and consisted of his own,
DeHaas's, Winds's, Wayne's, and Nelson's independent regiments. The
promotion excited the jealousy of Arnold who, although a brigadier, did
not like to see any other officer of ability placed on the same plane with
himself; and Colonel Maxwell, a very meritorious officer and friend to
St. Clair, thought it hard he should be overlooked for the benefit of a junior
officer. At this time the army at Ticonderoga numbered over nine thousand
effective men. After the destruction of the fleet under Arnold, Generals
Gates, Schuyler and Arnold called lustily for several thousand more troops.
See correspondence of these officers with Washington (Sparks), and with
President Hancock (Force's American Archives').
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 373
Thomas Smith to General St. Clair.
Philadelphia, 22d August, 1776.
My Dear Friend :—I was favored with yours 1 last night by Cap
tain Rippy. I now know by experience, what I always believed,
that elevation does not make you forget your friends. You will,
perhaps, be of opinion that I am not that sincere friend you take
me to be, when I inform you that the intelligence you gave me on
that head gave me far less pleasure than you supposed it would ;
the reason is, I knew it long before, for no sooner was you appointed
Brigadier-General but our worthy friend Wilson communicated the
agreeable news to me, upon which I wrote to most of our friends to
whom I knew the news would give pleasure.
It is not your elevation alone that I congratulate you upon ; but
I can assure you, from undoubted authority, that your military
character stands as high with Congress as that of any general on
the continent, and I flatter myself that you have as good a chance
for even a more elevated rank than that to which you are lately
raised. Whatever has been said, or whatever may be said to the
contrary, I think every man's own heart will tell him that self has
a considerable share in the direction of all our thoughts and actions.
I feel an instance of it upon this occasion, for though I do sincerely
rejoice at the elevation of a much esteemed friend, yet I am not
without my fears that I shall by that means be deprived of the
pleasure which I enjoyed in the company of that friend.
I feel the truth of your sentiments with regard to the Constitution
that we are about forming. In several sects of religionists in the
different ages of the world, and in some even now, inspiration was
supposed to have a considerable share in the direction of their ac
tions, and they very gravely supposed themselves gifted with it. I
believe we shall have the honor of first introducing the same doc
trine into modern polities. A motion was made, without a blush,
by a member, that whatever might require the consideration of the
House might be printed before any resolve was passed upon it, for
the use of the members, as several of them could read print better
than writing. Our principle seems to be this: that any man, even
the most illiterate, is as capable of any office as a person who has
had the benefit of education ; that education perverts the under
standing, eradicates common honesty, and has been productive of
all the evils that have happened in the world. In order that inspire1
The letters of St. Clair to Judge Smith have not been found.
374 The St. Clair Papers.
tion may be our only guide, every person who is to be chosen into
any office that was formerly supposed to require some degree of
human knowledge and experience to enable the person to execute it
with justice —every such person, I say—is to be turned out before
he cau possibly acquire any experience—e. g., in the form of gov
ernment now debating in the House. The committee have brought
in one article, that the justices of the peace shall be chosen bv the
people in the respective districts wherein they reside ; turned out
every seven years and a new set chosen in the same manner. We
are not come to it yet, but by the complexion of the House I have
reason to think it will pass. We are determined not to pay the least
regard to the former Constitution of this Province, but to reject
every thing therein that may be proposed, merely because it was
part of the former Constitution. We are resolved to clear every
part of the old rubbish out of the way and begin upon a clean
foundation. You know that experimental philosophy was in great
repute fifty years ago, and we have a mind to try how the same
principle will succeed in polities! You learned fellows who have
warped your understandings by poring over musty old books, will
perhaps laugh at us; but, know ye, that we despise you.
The situation of this country, as well as that of blind Britain,
must give great anxiety to every person who is not callous to the
feelings of humanity. They seem to have been in the same situa
tion for some time past with regard to their intellects as the builders
of Babel were in respect of their [out]. God knows how the de
structive dispute will end. I think the ruin of Britain is inevitable,
and her existence as a powerful kingdom is near at an end. We
will undoubtedly feel sorely the effects of the dispute; but I can
not help being of opinion that, according to the course of human
affairs, we must, in the end, prevail.
As to your verbal intelligence, you will have heard before this
can reach you that part of it is true and part false, as is always the
case. No news here. Mr. Woods came down last night. Your
family are well —not increased when he came away.
As for myself, I have the honor to serve the public and receive
nothing for it ; but that it puts it out of my power to serve myself
by going to the woods, for, as there is at present, and like to be
through our great wisdom, a suspension of all law for a considera
ble time, nothing is to be done in that channel, and from the temper
of the times no person has any security, let his conduct have been
what it will, that he will not be superseded by any being of a day.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 875
General St. Clair to Lieutenant-Colonel Allen.1
Ticonderoga, September 1, 1776.
Dear Sir:—This is my third to you since yours of,the25thof
July. Whether the former have reached you or not is doubtful, as
our communication seems not to be much more open than hereto
fore ; how that happens, God knows, but certain it is few letters to
or from this army get on.
I wish you had returned to the regiment. Though I well know
your sentiments, I really expected you would have come back. "The
osier keeps its footing when the dak is torn up by the roots." You
know my way of thinking, and you know likewise the obligations I
have to your family—obligations which no change of circumstances
can ever cancel. But you will excuse me, my dear sir, when I say
that I believe it would have been true policy to have given some
way to the temper of the times.
If I remember rightly, there were two points on which we were
perfectly agreed : First, that independence was not the interest of
America if the liberties of America could be otherwise secured;
Secondly, if foreign troops were employed to reduce America to ab
solute submission, that independence or any other mode was justifi
able. There is now no doubt about the employment of foreign
troops, which I own I think was the watchword to every man of
property in America ; for I doubt very much whether, if Great
Britain should succeed by force, if much odds would be made by
the lordly conquerors betwixt friends and foes, or if nature and ior1
William Allen, n Pennsylvania Loyalist, son of the Chief Justice of
Pennsylvania, belonged to one of the wealthiest and most distinguished
of the old families of that Province of the Penns, and, after the first year
of the revolution, espoused the British cause. He was a lieutenant-coon
in the Continental service in the early part of 1776, and served under St.
Clair in Canada. After the retreat of the Americans to Crown Pomt, lie
returned to Philadelphia, and, in common with other friends ot n
at this period, concluded that the only safety for the country was m a
burence to the mother country. He obtained leave to resign his c
in the Continental service, and, at the close of 1776, joined Lord ^iwe. - ©
endeavored to enlist a regiment of Pennsylvania Loyalists in i
was disappointed. Less than three hundred joined him. *118 °
part in the defenseof Pensacola against the French and Spaniarc 9- ® "*"*»
. ot Clair, mmdful r.r in New Brunswick in 1783. In the letter above given, &i- *- ^ from «" obligations to Chief-Justice Allen, endeavors to diasundo the so ^.^ t-\\e>
step which he had avowed it his purpose to tnko in tho o n.\a
is the reply.
376 The St. Clair Papers.
eign avarice and rapacity would not be glutted with the indiscrimi
nate spoil of both. I am persuaded many worthy men would not
have wished times to go as they have done, because they thought it
not consistent with the true interest of America, which might have
long been happy in a regulated (not an absolute) subordination to
Great Britain, amongst whom I think I may reckon your venerable
father;but that fatal proceeding1 has cast the die.
Do not, my dear sir, imagine my late promotion has altered my
sentiments. I will own to you I am pleased, not flattered, with it.
I have come to that time of life (and some how or other have always
had a way of thinking what some people call philosophy, but it is
nothing but constitution,) that puts me out of danger of that flutter
and emotion that sudden and unexpected elevation gives some peo
ple. I assure you I would rather experience the heartfelt satis
faction of discharging one social duty, one debt of gratitude, than
have as .many "Honours" and " Excellence's" affixed to my name
as would fill a quire of paper. To your father and brother, and Mr.
Penn, I have obligations that I must ever feel—that I will never
forget. You know I am a bad politician, but if you have not al
ready taken too decisive a part, I can not say one word more about
the matter; and when I reflect on your own good sense and the
superior understanding and experience of many of your friends, it
would be insolence to you to offer advice.
We have made this a very strong post. The old French lines are
repaired ; and redoubts upon redoubts constructed, and men enough
to defend them. If they come we shall certainly give a good ac
count of 'them. General Arnold is down the lake with the fleet,
three schooners and a sloop, and, I think, ten gondolas, mounting in
all above one hundred guns. The time is certainly near now, and I
wish you were here to share the honour, for we shall certainly beat
them. We shall make up for the Three Rivers ; but wherever you
are, my best wishes shall ever attend you.
Your baggage Major Scull takes to Albany—all but your lidding.
Your mattress and blankets I let Mr. Clason have, his having beeu
stolen one day out of the General's house; the rest I will keep; let
me know the price, and the money shall be remitted for the whole.
I thank you for the marquise. I will take all the care I can of it,
and bring it with me when I return; if I return not, you do not
1 Many hoped for an honorable accommodation with the British governmeiit
after a shew of resistance, but the Declaration of Independence dis
pelled that hope.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 377
want friends here who will do me the kindness to send it. Next
time I will tell you all about the money.
Colonel Joseph Wood1 to General St. Clair.
Philadelphia, September 3, 1776.
Dear Oeneral:—I this moment received yours of the 2d inst., and
return you many thanks for your kind concern for my health, which
I am sorry to say is not so well as I could wish or expect, consider
ing the length of time, from so small a wound ; * but one reason is,
I can't get quit of the fever ; two or three days I seem perfectly
well, after that comes on an inflammation in my leg which spreads
all over it, then I am forced to keep my bed five or six days, and
bathe and poultice it, and so I go on. God knows when I shall
have the pleasure of being in the field again. I long to be with
you. I intend setting off next week, sick or well, making all the
haste my health will permit. I am more easy that I have two such
field officers as Craig3 and Butler; * their commissions I have, and
shall bring them with me. I hope they will do well—hojie, did I
say ?—I am certain they will do every thing possible for the good
of the regiment.
I am in doubt about our army at New York—a letter from an
officer of rank this day says they are in want of ten thousand men;
if so, the Lord have mercy on them all. The militia going and re
turning with such speed smells strong of cowardice, and dispirits
1Joseph Wood succeeded St. Cluir as Colonel of the Second Pennsylvania.
He was commissioned as major, and was ordered to Canada with tho first
companies of the regiment, in January, 1776. He was promoted to lieuten
ant-colonel, vice- William Allen, July 22, and colonel 7th September, 1776.
He died in March, 1789.
2 "Wound received at the battlo of Three Rivers.
'Themas Craig, commissioned as captain in St. Clair's regiment, January
6, 1770; lieutenant-colonel, . September 7, 1776; appointed colonel Third
Pennsylvania Regiment, 1777. Died at tho age of 92, January 14, 1832.
♦Thomas Butler, third of the famous brothers who were conspicuous dur
ing the Revolutionary war. Was studying law with Judgo Wilson when
the war began, and enlisted a company for St. Clair's regiment, in which lie
obtained the majority. At the battlo of Hrandywino he received the thanks
of Washington for gallantry, and nt Monmouth ho defended a defilo in tlio
face of a heavy firo while his brother, Colonel Richard Tutler, withdrew his
regiment. He was present at tha defeat of St. Clair in 1791. He was born
in Pennsylvania, 1754, and died at New Orleans, September 7, 1805.
378 The St. Clair Papers.
the troop. I dined yesterday with five or six of the Congress ; they
think a few days will decide the matter one way or the other. It
may, for us, but not for the enemy—they can retreat to their lines.
You must know, before this, we have given up New York, and
must do what they wish for—fight them in the open field. You
know how we are provided for that. Some of our men are brave—
must be to make a stand against double their numbers, and six
times better armed. We can only hope that God will fight our
battles, as in old times.
Mr. Wilson, with his lady, started for Carlisle to-day. He de
sired me to give you his best compliments, and, when he returns,
will send you a letter a mile long, to make up for the short ones, or
the very few he has wrote you.
God bless you. All the family join in good wishes for your pros
perity in every form, but none more so than, dear sir, your affec
tionate friend, etc.
Colonei, Robert H. Harrison to General Schuyler.
Neware, November, 26, 1776. —3 o'clock p. m.
Sir:—By command of his Excellency, I have the honor to trans
mit you the inclosed resolve1 of Congress, the original of which this
1 Remind—That General Washington be directed forthwith to order under
his immediate command such of the forces, now in the Northern Depart
ment, as have been raised in the States of Pennsylvania and New Jersey,
and that the commanding officer in the Northern Department be directed
to apply to the Legislatures of the Eastern States, to afford him such assist
ance as they may stand in need of.—Journals of Congress, Saturday, No
vember 23, 1776.
This resolution was in consequence of the movement of General Howe
toward Philadelphia in force. General Washington had but few troops to
interpose, and his situation was very critical. It was at this time that St.
Clair was directed to join him with his brigade. Scarcely any halt was
made at Albany. As soon as boats were procured St. Clair proceeded south
ward, but was intercepted by an order from General Lee to join bis divis
ion, which was following in the rear of the British army, notwithstanding
Washington had ordered him several weeks before to join him.
After the capture of General Lee (see p. 28), General St. Clair proceeded
immediately to join General Washington. On the 10th December, we find
the latter proposing to send him to command the New Jersey militia that
had been recruited in that part of the State where General Lee had been
operating. The time of service of General St. Clair's own troops being
about to expire, and they promising to re-enlist for the war if furloughed, he
permitted them to return home, and out of his own private funds supplied
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 379
minute came to hand ; and I am to request you, in his name, to
have the purport of it complied with, by sending down, with all
possible expedition, the whole of the troops belonging to the States
of Pennsylvania and Jersey which are in the Northern Depart
ment, to join the army under his immediate command. You will
please to order them to fall in on the communication leading from
New York to Philadelphia, at Brunswick, or between that and
Princeton, and to direct their march by a back and secure route,
that it may not be liable to be interrupted by the enemy. I have
mentioned Brunswick, supposing and hoping that we shall be able
to make a stand there ; however, his Excellency begs you will di
rect the commanding officers of the troops to send him frequent ex
presses, to advise of their approaches, and by which means their
destination may be explicitly pointed out. At present it is conjec
ture. It must depend on several circumstances. I have not time
to add much, therefore Bhall only inform you that the enemy are in
possession of Hackensack, and are now pushing this way.
James Wilson to General St. Clair.
Baltimore,1 December 30, 1776.
My Dear Sir : —With peculiar pleasure I congratulate you on the
victory at Trenton.2 I take it the tide is now turning, and will soon
run high in our favor.
I have written to General Washington, recommending Colonel
Irvine to a regiment, and Mr. Robert Smith (a young gentleman of
great merit, who studied law with me), to a troop of horse. You
will oblige me much by adding your influence to the recommenda
tion, and by letting me know the result of it as soon as possible.
General Thompson to General St. Clair.
Carlisle, January 11, 1777.
My Dear General:—This will be handed to you by your old and
some of the money necessary to pay expenses of ro-enlistment. General
St. Clair entered actively into the work of the campaign.
1 Congress was holding sessions at Baltimore.
* For an account of the victories of Trenton and Princeton, and St. Clair's
brilliant part in them, see pp. 30 to 44 of this volume.
380 The St. Clair Papers.
very worthy friend, Major Dick Butler,1 who longs much to see
you. The bad treatment the Major and some other officers of the
regiments have met with, requires the notice of every General in the
army who wishes to serve his country, and as I know well your
steady attachment to both your friends and country, make no doubt,
when you are informed how matters stand respecting the officers in
Colonel Mackay's regiment, but you will take such steps as will en
able those who think themselves injured to vindicate their characters,
and purge the army, as soon as possible, of those who have acted
out of character as gentlemen and officers.
The good of the service bus obliged me to make use of arguments
with the Major and Mr. HufTnagle, to engage them to continue in
the regiment after they can have a hearing before a court-martial.
I must confess they have suffered much, but they must be prevailed
on to continue, or the usefulness of the regiment will be lost. We
both know the Colonel to be a good officer, and a man of strict honor
and great goodness of heart, but it will be impossible for him alone
to manage the regiment or get duty done, if the Major and Mr.
Huffnagle leave him. From what I have been well informed of, I
think some of the officers must go to the left about, and Huffnagle
will make an excellent Major, and as the ranks of the captains are
not yet fixed, it can't give any great uneasiness to them ; but in case
it should, I don't know any of them fit to be raised a step higher—
two only excepted—that ought to mount a ladder.
My dear St. Clair, when last I had the pleasure of seeing you,1
I even envied you the fatigues you had then to encounter. I now
most heartily rejoice on account of your successes, and more and
more wish to share the dangers and honors that may await you.
P. S. —If you can't possibly reconcile Butler and Huffnagle to
stay in Mackay's regiment, you must see and provide for them in
one of the new ones. Good officers must not be lost.
1 Richard Butler, the most distinguished of the fighting Butlers. He was
soon promoted to he Lieutenant-Colonel of Morgan's rifle corps, and subsequently
Colonel of the Ninth Pennsylvania. He was agent for Indian
affairs in 1787-88, and in 1791 was commissioned a Major-General, com
manded the right wing of St. Clair's army moving against the Indians, and
was killed November 4, of that year.
2 At the battle of Three Rivers, where General Thompson had the mis
fortune to he captured. He was permitted to go on parol, hut the delay in
his exchange bore hard on his spirits. He blamed Congress with it in a let
ter to St. Clair, written in April this year, in which he said that as he was
not permitted to curse that body, he would turn his wrath against the Con.
stitution of Pennsylvania, which he cursed with great heartiness.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 381
James Wilson to General St. Clair.
Carlisle, January 14, 1777.
My Dear General : —It is long since I have had the pleasure of
hearing from you ; but am sensible that you have as good, if not
better, reasons for not writing than ever I had. The active and
glorious scenes in which you have lately borne a share are a sufficient
apology to your friends for not being favored with your letters. It
comforts me to hear of you when I can not hear from you.
I have enjoyed nine days at home ; and in that time have seen
my family increased by the addition of a line young boy. The sit
uation of public affairs is so interesting that I find myself' incapable
of fixing upon those tranquil pleasures in my library, of which I
have often formed such fond ideas when perplexed and distracted
with business.
While I can not forbear thinking of the public, I believe it will
be best for me to continue acting in it (provided that can happen
with propriety), and return to Baltimore as soon as I can leave Mrs.
Wilson.
I feel very sensibly for General Mercer's misfortune ; and for the
loss the service will sustain in being deprived for some time of his
valuable talents. I hope, however, he will, recover and do well.1
Colonel Mackay and Major Butler will inform you of the very
extraordinary proceedings of the Captains and subalterns in the
Westmoreland regiment. They have gone so far as even to sus
pend the Major.2 You know his worth and character. From all
the accounts I have had from gentlemen upon whose judgments I
can rely, I am satisfied that he has great merit as an officer ; and
that his merit has been the cause of the persecution raised against
him. But I need not stimulate your own friendship for him.
These committee appointments play vengeance. If the Captains
and subalterns succeed in this stroke against their Major, I have no
doubt but that the next one will be aimed at the head of the Colonel.
Indeed, I have good reason to conclude that this is part of the plan
originally laid.
1This refers to the battle of Princeton, in the curly part of which General
Mercer was mortally wounded. As ho was left in tho care of the Quaker
family named Clark, where he fell, his fate was not known at the time this
letter was written.
2This is the same difficulty referred to in the letter of General Thompson.
On account of appointments being made on recommendation of committees,
the subordinate officers attempted to dictate who should be field officers.
382 The St. Clair Papers.
General Arthur St. Clair to James Wilson.
Morristown, February 10, 1777.
Dear Sir:—I was favored with a letter from you yesterday. I
heartily congratulate you on the addition to your family. As Mrs.
Wilson has recovered, such a nine days was worth an age. I wish
it was possible that you could enjoy the tranquil pleasures of retire
ment, but it is not a time to think of them ; and believe me, my
dear friend, although it is not much to your taste, your figure is at
least as respectable in public as amiable in private life.
Colonel Mackay is not yet come up, and I have just heard that he
lies sick at Trenton, but I have made the General1 acquainted with
the confusion and the causes of it that prevails in that regiment,
and I have no doubt that the authors will meet with their deserts.
This will be handed you by Major Ollendorf, an officer, I believe,
of merit, and who, it seems to me, has been sent here upon a wild
goose chase. Most of the foreigners that have yet been employed
are mere-adventurers, but I do not believe that in his case ; he has
behaved well here. After all this preface, I don't know what should
follow, but it is next to impossible that an utter stranger, and one
who has not the language of the country, should succeed in raising
a corps, and the e.\'iienses attending frequent journeys are so much
greater than the allowance that it can not but disgust those who
have no attachments but the profession of a soldier. If some of
ficers were appointed to him who have connections, his corps might
be raised, and I am fully persuaded it would not be long before he
would discipline them.
This moment I received yours of the 28th ultimo. I am very
sorry that neither Colonel Irvine nor Mr. Smith have succeeded,
which I informed you of before. The General does not choose to go
so largely into the horse as Congress has empowered him; at least
until he sees the regiments he has already officered nearly complete ;
when that happens, and more horse should be thought necessary,
Colonel Irvine has, I believe, his promise, and I have it likewise for
Mr. Smith; and the general has pleased to express uneasiness that
application had not been made earlier.
The enemy are still in Jersey, but they have very little rest. We
give them a brush every other day, and we are certain that they
are in great want of both forage and provisions. They can not
possibly stay here. But where will they go to? Perhaps to Dela1
General Washington.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 383
ware River. That is, however, my way of thinking ; and had we
somebody at the head of the army in New York, they would soon
be obliged to go somewhere else ; but I must not speak ill of my
superiors, and indeed I do not know the man at all.
Major Ollendorf waits for this letter. I assure (you) I have not
ceased to write by every opportunity. You will get them all by
and by, and I shall continue to do so, for I know but few things in
this world that gives me greater pleasure.1
Tom Smith is here, and I write this at Colonel Biddle's office, who
sends a whole bundle of correspondence.
St. Clair Promoted for Gallantry at Trenton and
Princeton.
Baltimore, February 22, 1777.
Sir : —The Congress having been pleased to promote you to the
rank of major-general in the army of the United States, I do my
self the pleasure to inclose your commission. Confident of your
ardor in the cause of America, and of your attachment to her liber
ties, I am persuaded you will, on all occasions, show yourself every
way deserving the honor your country has now conferred upon you.
With the warmest wishes for your health and prosperity, I have
the honor to be, sir, your most obedient and humble servant,
John Hancock, Pres't.
You will please to acknowledge the receipt of this letter and com
mission.
Hon. Major-General St. Clair.
James Wilson to Major-General St. Clair.
February 20, 1777.
My Dear Sir:—Yesterday, Congress proceeded to the promotion
of general officers. There was much difficulty and delicacy in set
tling the principles on which the promotions ought to he founded.
I expressed my sentiments in favor of adhering to the line of action
before marked out, but said that if it were proper to deviate from
that line, you were the officer in whose favor the alteration ought to
be made. Lord Sterling, General Mifflin, yourself, General Ste1The
original letter is in the possession of Lewis J. Cist, Esq , Cincinnati.
384 The St. Clair Papers.
phen, aud General Lincoln were chosen major-generals. I neecl not
express my satisfaction at your promotion. I feel peculiarly
pleased that I have seen the event take place before I leave Con
gress.
I am exceedingly hurt that our deserving friend, General Tlxompson,
was passed over. It is a misfortune sufficient to be a prisoner.
I am, however, willing to believe that the only reason with xxiany
gentlemen for omitting him was an apprehension that a prom otion
would increase the difficulty of his exchange.
If you have not already engaged yourself, you will much ol)lige
me by appointing Billy Bird your aid-de-camp. You will rec?<_>Hect
that, when he first entered into service, I was solicitous he sla ould
be formed under you. You know, however, of his activity. He
is young, but he is far from being perfect in sense and judgmea t- If
he is not yet exchanged, I hope his exchange will soon take £:>Xace.
I have been informed that he has either obtained, or has a pro>ssjiect
of obtaining, a lieutenancy in the Light Horse. But I woul<i , on
every account, prefer what I now recommend him to. I have good reason to believe, and think it not improper to i*int,
that the important command of Ticonderoga is destined for your
next campaign.1 I presage it a theater of glory.
Colonel Wayne2 to President of Congress.
Ticonderoga, February 2, Y7"7* •
Sir:—Inclosed is the return of this garrison, together witla.
appraisement and receipt for goods sent to the public store. J-0
1 Judge Wilson's prediction was correct. But, after St. Clair's jjronr*"^ ;'
and before his appointment to the Northern Department, he contin*-1*3 ,
serve under Washington. On the 10th of March, General Washington
General Gates, who was in command at Philadelphia, to resume the «->1 A St. adjutant-general, and notified him that lie should send Major-Gen e r , ti,e
Clair to take his place. Gates was looking for something else; deel iT* * ' j-, n_
place of adjutant-general, and on the 25th of March was appointed V>^ .
gress to the command of the Northern Department, in place of 4-^ *^ n\
Schuyler. On the "2d of May following, he was superseded by *-^ om.
Schuyler. General St. Clair had been selected to servo as second 5 *"* -pier's mand, but he did not leave his post at Philadelphia until General Scl* m-x~
restoration. . .
x- nson 2Colonel Anthony Wayne had been placed in command of the pC xr^ 4nloat
Ticonderoga in the latter part of the preceding November, with 5 *~^ "~-*«ant
tions to complete the fortifications. Little could be done at that, as If
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 385
will observe that only two small regiments of militia have yet ar
rived to relieve the old garrison, and that the Second and Fourth
regiments of Pennsylvania, whose times were expired near a month,
have marched for Philadelphia ; the Sixth regiment, belonging to
the same State, will also march the 8th instant ; their times expired
the 9th of January, so that if troops don't shortly arrive, this gar
rison will be left very weak indeed. I have wrote timely and fre
quently to General Schuyler on the occasion, and have once more
urged him to push up troops and provisions with all possible dis
patch. I am sorry to say that this post has been much neglected,
and unless speedy and vigorous measures are used in gathering in
supplies, the season will be lost in which it can be done ; and per
haps, after all the expense and trouble in endeavoring to render the
post tenable, it will be left an easy prey to the enemy, owing to a
lack of troops and supplies. I shall omit nothing in my power to
guard against a surprise, and although our numbers are few, yet I
am under no apprehension but I shall be able to maintain this post
(unless provisions fail) until a sufficient reinforcement can have time
to arrive. I hope soon to have it in my power to give you some in
formation of the motions or intentions of the enemy in this quarter.
Colonel Anthony Wayne to Major-General Gates. 0
Ticonderoga, February 4, 1777.
My Dear General:—This garrison now consists of only four weak
regiments—one Pennsylvania, one New Jersey, and two regiments
of militia from the State of the Massachusetts Bay, amounting in
the whole to about twelve hundred, sick and well. That from Penn
sylvania will march the day after to-morrow ; we shall then be re
duced to nine hundred. I have not been able to prevail on the
Eastern troops to stay one hour longer than the expiration of their
time.
I have done every thing that lay in my power to render this post
tenable, by surrounding the works with wide and good abatis.
I have also provided timber for the block-houses, which wiD be
erected in a few days, and dropped the notion of pickets, as we
of clothing and hospital stores rendered the condition of the men so wretched
as to preclude all other thought but that of trying to preserve life until
spring should come.
25
38« The St. Clair Papers.
could not man them. Cumberland Bay is yet open ; otherwise we
should, in all probability, have received a visit long since from the
enemy, who, as I learn, had collected all the sleighs in Canada for
the purpose.
I have a prospect of being soon reinforced from the eastward. In
the present debilitated state of the garrison we can do little more
than mount the proper guards, keep out the usual scouts, and find
firewood, a stock of which I wish to have beforehand in case of an
attack, which probably will not be before the lake breaks up, unless
Cumberland Bay should close soon. I should esteem it as a particular
favor if you could get me relieved, my health being much impaired.
I have been necessitated to act as quartermaster, commissary, en
gineer and commandant, and worried with wretches applying for
discharges or furloughs, as you wed to be, until I am become a mere
skeleton.
I am next to inform you that this post has been too much ne
glected, and I fear, notwithstanding all the expense and trouble we
have had last summer and this winter to render it tenable, it will be
left an easy prey to the enemy for want of proper supplies to main
tain an army in the spring, owing to a supineness somewhere.
Present my most respectful compliments to General Washington
and Generals Mifflin and St. Clair.
Colonel Anthony Wayne to General Schuyler.
Ticonderoga, February 4, 1777.
Sir:—I have the pleasure to inform you that an officer, with part
oi Colonel 's regiment, arrived here last evening from Num
ber Four, and says the whole regiment, consisting of upwards of
three hundred men, may be expected in two or three days. They
are from the State of New Hampshire, and enlisted during the war.
They are coming at a very seasonable time, as the Sixth Penn
sylvania Battalion are just about to leave the ground, and our gar
rison so debilitated that we were hard pushed for men to furnish the
necessary guards, scouts, and fatigues.
I have a scouting party down the lake as far as Gillilaud's Creek,
where it is said some Indian tracks have lately been discovered.
The enemy have given out that they intend paying us a visit,' but
that they can not do so unless Cumberland Bay shuts up ; as yet it
i.< open, and probably will continue so during the winter, unless
there comes very severe weather indeed.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 387
I have been necessitated to stop a number of sleighs to haul the
abatis, treating them with kindness and paying them for their
labour. I have heard no complaint, and conclude they are well
content.
I have in view a project of driving piles across the channel oppo
site one of the redoubts, to which a boom may be fixed that will be
a sufficient barrier against the enemy's vessels. This will require a
good deal of labour.
If it should meet your approbation, please to order up one of the
engineers to superintend the work.
I shall be able to communicate to him the plan and manner in
which it may be executed.
Colonel Anthony Wayne to General Schuyler.
Ticonderoga, 23rd March, 1777.
Dear General : —It is the opinion of those who are best acquainted
with Lake Champlain, that it will be navigable in the course of two
or three weeks at farthest. It is, therefore, my duty to inform you that
we have not more than twelve hundred men, sick and well, officers in
cluded, on the ground ; four hundred of which are militia, whose times
expire in ten days ; nor from what I can learn, by the best authority,
is there any probability of a sufficient number of troops arriving
from the eastward, for a very considerable time, as few, if any of
their regiments arc near full, and great part of those who were en
listed have deserted or are straggling through the country. Add to
this, that their officers seem seized with a general torpor (which can
not be accounted for), especially at a time when every effort is ab
solutely necessary to push on the troops, and to give them some idea
of duty and discipline previous to their entering into action.
I must beg, sir, that you would once more endeavor to rouse the
public officers in those States from their shameful lethargy before it
be too late. I do assure you that there is not one moment to spare
in bringing in troops and the necessary supplies. The few men I
have on the ground are put to hard, very hard duty ; but they go
through all with a ready cheerfulness, conscious of the pressing ne
cessity.
Whilst I am writing, Mr. Adams, who lives at Lake George
landing, has arrived almost spent. He, with Captain Baldwin of
the Rangers, belonging to Stillwater, and twenty-one men, were
made prisoners at Sabl>ath-dav Point by a party of Coc-hnawago In
dians and Canadians, amounting to about twenty, under the com
388 The St. Clair Papers.
maud of Captain McCoy, of the Regulars. Lieutenant Henry,
with five others belonging to Colonel Van Schaiek's regiment, are
killed. Adams and two of the soldiers were taken last Wednes
day afternoon. Captain Baldwin and the other prisoners were sur
prised and taken asleep, at the Point, about three o'clock the next
morning. Lieutenant Henry defended himself with great bravery
for a considerable time, dangerously wounding two of the Indians
with his navy. He at last fell, worthy of a better fate. Adams
says he informed him of another party hovering round this post;
but, if that was true, I believe they would not have mentioned it.
He further says that the Indians came by the way of Omergotchy,
and that he was set at liberty on account of being weakly and a
former acquaintance of Captain McCoy, who also informed him that
the enemy are collected at St. John's, Chambly, and Montreal, and
their vicinity. I have sent Captain Whitcomb, with a party of
Rangers, to bury the dead, and hope soon to retaliate on the Brit
ish butchers.
Colonel Wayne to Governor Bowdoe* and Council of
Massachusetts Bay.
Ticonderoga, 25th March, 1777.
Gentlemen:—A party of Cochnawago Indians, under the com
mand of a Captain McCoy, of the British forces, have killed sev
eral of our people, and taken Captain Baldwin, with twenty-one
men, prisoners, at a place called Sabbath-day Point, on the 20th
instant, by which means the enemy, who are now all collected at Mon
treal, Chambly, St. John's, and their vicinity, will be but too soon
informed of the debilitated state of this garrison, which at present
does not consist of more than twelve hundred men, sick and well,
officers included, four hundred of which are militia from Berkshire
and Hampshire, in your State, whose times expire in ten days—but
this in confidence.
It is the opinion of those who are best acquainted with the Lake
Champlain, that it will be navigable in the course of two or three
weeks at farthest, so that we have every reason to expect that the
enemy here in full force as soon as that happens, being ready pre
pared for the purpose.
It is my duty, therefore, to request you, in the most pressing
manner, to use every possible means in pushing on the troops—
properly equipped. Nearly one-half of those who arrived are destitute
of arms and accouterments, and sent on without any officers, except
a few subalterns. For God sake, rouse your field and other officers
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 389
from their lethargy. It is their duty to be on the spot, in order
to maneuver their people, and to give them some idea of discipline
previous to their entering into action.
I would beg leave to suggest that the most speedy way of for
warding the baggage and other necessaries, through these hid rocuh,
will be by pack-horses ; you can not use too much dispatch ; there
is not one moment to spare
I am confident that you have too just a sense of the importance
of this place to suffer it to be lost for want of timely succors, when
in your power to throw them in. I shall, therefore, say no more on
the subject, than just to assure you that nothing shall be wanting
on my part to render the post tenable, and to defend it to the last
extremity.
Captain Reyman, a gentleman well acquainted with this lake, and
a worthy officer, who is charged with this express, will be able to
give you such other information as you may require.
Just as Captain Reyman was setting off, he was taken violently
ill. Lieutenant McLean is, therefore, charged with the express.
He is another trusty officer.1
COLONKL ANTHONY WAYNE TO PRESIDENT JOHN HANCOCK.
Ticonderoga, 2d April, 1777.
Sir:—The enclosed return will clearly show you the debilitated
state of this garrison. It has been very fluctuating of late. The
militia are now all gone, and those contained in the return are raised
on the new establishment. I hope soon to receive a considerable
reinforcement, as General Schuyler has dispatched expresses to the
neighboring States for that purpose. I have also sent to the State
1 This letter, the first draft of which was retained by Colonel Wayne, and
is included among the St. Clair Papers, is also found in the Massachusetts
Archives, Vol. 196, p. 324, and bears on it the following official indorsements,
which show that great care was taken to read Colonel Wayne's communica
tions, if nothing was done worth mentioning for the relief of Ticonderoga:
In Council, March 30, 1777. Read and sent down
Jno. Avery, Dpy Secy.
In the House of Representatives, March 31, 1777. Read and committed
to Mr. Speaker Benj. Preble, Mr. Story, and Col. Bliss, with such as the
Honorable Board shall join. Sent up for concurrence.
J. Warren, Spkr.
In Council, March 31, 1777. Read and concurred, and Jabez Fisher, Jno,
Taylor, and Wm. Phillips, Esq'rs, are joined.
Jno. Avert, Dpy Secy.
390 The St. Clair Papers.
of the Massachusetts Bay, urging the Council to push on the troops
and necessary supplies with all possible dispatch.
There will be an open navigation on Lake Champlain before this
reaches you, and I have reason to expect the enemy here in full
force as soon as the ice will permit. We are preparing to receive
them. The ready cheerfulness with which officers and men un
dergo all fatigue and difficulties, I take as a happy presage that
they are determined to defend the post to the last extremity. I
can't forbear mentioning my surprise at the total neglect of the
navy. You may rest assured that the enemy have not more than
four vessels of force on the lake, exclusive of two taken from us,
and about twenty-five or thirty flat-bottomed boats. It is said that
they are building four more. Even then they will have but ten,
and I am well convinced that in the course of eight weeks we could
build vessels sufficient with those we already have to command the
lake ; and as to rigging, strip but the one-third of the prizes taken
from the enemy, and now laid up to the eastward, they will be more
than sufficient for the purposes ; this once done, an army of two
thousand or three thousand men will be sufficient not only to gar
rison this post, but put the enemy in constant alarm and oblige them,
to put a large army of observation in Canada.
On the contrary, let them remain in command of the lake, they
need not more than one thousand land forces, with what savages
and Canadians they can raise, to oblige us to maintain an army of
at least five thousand men to watch their motions, whilst the re
mainder of their forces may be sent round and act in conjunction
with their troops to the southward. But was a fleet to be created,
they dare not show one man from Canada. The very expense of
paying and maintaining three thousand extraordinary for six months
would give you the command of the lake. You must at one day
have it ; the sooner, therefore, the better.
Colonel Anthony Wayne to Colonel Van Schaick.1
Ticonderoga, 13?A April, 1777,
Sir:—Your favor of the 7th inst. I have just received. I wish
1 Gozen Van Schaick, son of Mayor Van Schaick of Albany, and one of
the best soldiers in the American army. He participated in the French
war, being advanced from lieutenant, by regular promotion, to lieutenantcolonel
in the First New York regiment. On the breaking out of the Rev
olution, he was made colonel of the Second New York regiment ; Nov.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 391
that the arms and cash were arrived. There were two howitzers at
Half Moon; if they are not yet sent forward, pray order them with
such ammunition, ordnance and ordnance stores as are at Albany
(for this post) to be sent forward with all possible dispatch, let the
expense be what it will. If the roads are bad, it's only adding a
sufficient force of horses to the carriages. Our situation admits of
no delay.
I have reason to believe the enemy are advancing. A strong
party of them were discovered three days ago at the Four Brothers ;
and some of their boats were plying between that and Gilliland's
Creek. Previous to the receipt of this intelligence, I had sent a de
tachment under Lieutenant-Colonel Bassett to that place for prov
ender. I have since ordered another party in armed boats to try
to bring him off and cover his retreat. I hope they will effect it.
Colonel Anthony Wayne to Major-General Schuyler.
Ticonderoga, 14th April, 1777.
Dear General :—A scouting party returned yesterday from Onion
River, with advice that the enemy have a strong detachment on the
Four Brothers, and that their boats were seen plying between that
and Gilliland's Creek. Previous to the receipt of this intelligence,
I had sent a party under the command of Lieutenant-Colonel Bas
sett to that creek for provender, and have since dispatched another
detachment in armed bateaux to bring him off and cover his re
treat. I hope they will effect it, as the loss of his party would be
too sensibly felt. We have received but a very small reinforce
ment since the last return I made you.
I can't account for the happiness of the Eastern States with re
spect Ui this post on any other principle but the general received
notion that no attack will be made here. However, a few days will
probably reduce this matter to a certainty, as the lake has been nav
igable about a week.
22, 1776, was placed in command of the First New York battalion, and af
terwards sent to Cherry Valley toprotoct the inhabitants against the Indians;
served as brigadier-general under Lord Stirling at the battle of Monmouth,
and in April, 1779, at the head of a select force, destroyed the Onondaga set
tle..ients, and received vote of thanks from Congress Appointed brigadiergeneral
by brevet October 10, 1783. He was born 1737; died July 4, 1789.
392 The St. Clair Papers.
James Wilson to Major General St. Clair.
Philadelphia, Tith March, 1777.
My Dear Sic : —I have been favored with two letters from you
since my return to Philadelphia. Your promise to write to me
once a week gives me great pleasure, but it will give me still greater
pleasure to see you soon. This, I have some hopes, will lie the
case, as General Gates is now appointed to the command at Ticonderoga.1
I can more than conceive what you feel at your long ab
sence from your family.
You particularly oblige me by reserving a place for Billy Bird.
As some late difficulties are now removed from the cartel, his ex
change, I hope, may soon take place.
I have resumed my seat in Congress. My reason is, that if at
any time I can be useful to my country, I can at this. Pennsylvania
is in the greatest confusion ; - perhaps order may, at last, arise from
it. The very critical situation of public affairs is of much advan
tage to the Assembly and their friends.
I shall write you more fully, soon.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
Morristown, 18th April, 1777.
Dear Sir:—I am favored with yours of the loth.2 I have wrote
•"The Congress hnvo directed General Gates to take General Fermoy
with him to Ticonderoga, and such other French officers as he may think
proper. General St. Clair being ordered to Ticonderoga, b..t previously to
repair to this city to await the further order of Congress, you will please to
direct him to repair hero accordingly as soon as possible."—Prcsuient Han
cock to General Washington, April 4, 1777.
'-3The return of Mr. Wilson to Congress was in compliance with the ear
nest entreaties of General Washington, who greatly needed at this time the
support of the best men of the country. 1 he situation in Pennsylvania is
described by the Commander-in-Chief in a letter to General Schuyler, writ
ten at Morristown. in March (See Sparks, Vol. IV., p. 360): "The disaffec
tion in Pennsylvania, which I fear is much beyond anything you have con
ceived, and the depression of the people of this State, render a strong sup
port necessary to prevent a systematical submission ; besides, the loss of
Philadelphia would prove a very great injury, as we draw from thenco al
most all our supplies."
2This letter has not been found among the St. Clair Papers, but the sub
jects on which it treated are indicated in the above reply. The communi
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 393
fully to Congress upon the inexpediency and indeed danger of form
ing a camp at Bristol before I am reinforced more strongly here,
and I hope they will accord with me.
I am of opinion, with you, that General Howe will never attempt
Philadelphia without first making a stroke at the army collected
here. At the same time that I thank you for the desire you express
for serving in this department, I applaud your resolution of submit.ting
cheerfully to whatever post is assigned you.1
President Hancock to General St. Clair.
Philadelphia, April 30, 1777.
Sir : —The Congress having received intelligence of the approach
of the enemy towards Ticonderoga, have thought proper to direct
you to repair thither without delay. I have it, therefore, in charge
to transmit the enclosed resolve, and to direct that you immediately
set out on the receipt hereof.2
Colonel Anthony Wayne to General Gates.
Ticonderoga, 25th April, 1777.
Dear General:—Our force is so very small that, after furnishing
the necessary guards—garrisoning the block-houses and half man
ning the vessels, together with the usual scouts—we have very few
cation of Washington to Congress, referred to in the above letter, is not
included in Sparks's collection.
•St. Clair had expressed a desire to be under Washington, but, while not
being pleased with the resolve of Congress assigning him to Ticonderoga,
he proceeded to that post with the alacrity of a good soldier.
sGeneralSt. Clair's appointment to the command of Ticonderoga gave
great umbrago to General Sullivan, who thought he should have been first
preferred. On the 16th March GeneraI Washington took notice of his
pique in a kind but severe letter, which opened in these words: " Do not,
my dear General Sullivan, torment yourself any longer with imaginary
slights, and involve others in the perplexities you feel on that score," and
then proceeds to justify the assignment of St. Clair and other officers, and
concludes: " But I have not timo to dwell upon a subject of this kind. I
shall quit it with an earnest exhortation, that you will not suffer yourself to
bo teased with evils that only exist in the imagination, and with slights that
have no existence at all; keeping in mind, at the same time, that, if distant
armies are to be formed, there are several gentlemen before you in point of
rank, who have a right to claim a preference."
f
894 The St. Clair Papers.
men left for fatigue. Our whole force, officers, artificers, sailors,
marines, artillery, rank and file, sick and well, don't amount to
nineteen hundred—one-fourth part of whom are destitute of arms,
so that I have been necessitated to substitute spears in their place.
And, from what I can learn, there is not much probability of our
having any great addition to this force, for a very considerable
time —so that the militia are absolutely necessary to assist in putting
the place in some better position of defense, as we can't out of this
debilitated army furnish fatigue men sufficient for the purpose. I
have sent Lieutenant Barber to Albany for four hundred stand of
arms, as it will require that number to complete those who are now
on the ground without any. You will please to order them, on
with all possible dispatch. We have secured the pass between
Mount Independence and Ticonderoga in such a manner that the
enemy's ships can not get through below ; and, in case of an at
tack, you may rest assured that this post shall be defended until
succours can have time to arrive.
State of New Hampshire dj Committee of Safety to Dele
gates in Congress.
May 10th, 1777.
Gentlemen:—About one-half of the troops proportioned to this
State to raise as their quota for the Continental Army have marched
for Ticonderoga, and most of them, we suppose, are at that place by
this time. Another quarter will be ou their march in a very few
days, and the remainder as soon as possible. Every nerve is exert,
ing among the friends of the country to engage and forward them.
They are but very ill clothed, and, as cloth can not be procured
on any terms for that purpose, unless Congress will order Colonel
Laugdon to let the State have some out of those in his hands, which
we desire you to endeavor to procure. We have scarce any stock
of lead and flints, and only three small field pieces in the State ;
therefore would have you solicit orders to Colonel Langdon to keep
in this State three or four field pieces, and such quantity of lead and
flint as the general concern will admit of; a company of artillery
men will voluntarily engage in this town. A great number of our
militia are without fire-arms, and the greater part they have are but
ordinary—if there is such a supply ou the continent that consist
ently a small magazine might be left in this State, to be used only
in case of an attack, it might be of great advantage. We have
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 395
many circumstances come to hand which make it probable a descent
will soon be made on our coast. We have made several discoveries
of combinations made by the Tories in Hillsborough and western
parts of Massachusetts Bay, and upper part of this county ; we
have reason to believe, by information of persons on oath, that
some have combined to take arms and join the enemy, when an op
portunity offers ; though we hope their numbers are not large. We
have just heard a hogshead of entrenching tools is discovered under
a barn in Holies, and a considerable of liquors, some provisions and
firearms in and about Groton in the Massachusetts. Interesting
matters are opening, and it is probable all our jails will soon be
filled with these more than monsters in the shape of men, who
would wreck their native country, in hopes to have some of the
plunder. Although our difficulties are great, and appear to be in
creasing, yet a spirit seems to rise with the difficulties among most
of our people which we hope will not easily be crushed.
General Gates to General Washington.
Albany, 30th May, 1777.
Sir:—Late last night the inclosed from General Poor,1 was
1 Ticonderoqa, Mny 27, 1777.—10 o'clock at night.
Dear Sir:—Preparatory to the execution of a plan to surprise any ports
which the enemy may have established on the lake. I thought it proper
yesterday to dispatch a reconnoitering party, with orders to proceed to Split
Eock, last night, to spend this day in observation, and return in the evening
to an established rendezvous, and make his report. It has returned to this
place in the moment of the embarkation of the detachment, and informs us
that they, this morning, landed at Split Rock, about break of day, within
one hundred and fifty yards of the enemy's advance boat, which the ap
proach of day discovered, together with two schooners and six gondolas, all
within three hundred yards of them. He observed on the west shore about
forty bateaux, but as there wus a thick fog, he could only discover the form
of the vessels, a number of fires. A very heavy morning gun wus dis
charged lower down the lake—he thinks at Schuyler's Island. As this re
port induced the strongest suspicions of the enemy's approach, I thought it
my duty to forward it to you as speedily as possible, and shall be proud to
receive your commands.
You know the strength of the garrison by the Inst general returns. If
the post should be invested, which I firmly believe, 1 much dread we shall
Buffer for provisions. I am, dear sir,
Your most obedient and ready humble servant,
Enoch Poor.
11 ajor-Geneeal, Gates. r
396 The St. Clair Papers.
brought me by express from Ticonderoga. I also inclose your Ex
cellency a general return of the garrison at that post, dated the 24th
instant, by which you will perceive the shameful deficiency in the
numbers proper for its defense.1 Artillerists are likewise much
wanted. I always expected six companies ; two is as many as can
be said to be there. The bad weather of late has so cut up the
roads that the transportation of stores, cannon, and provisions has
been extremely delayed. I am this moment sending expresses to
the Eastern States, with a copy of General Poor's letter to each,
and a pressing requisition for an immediate reinforcement of men,
either by corps of militia or a draught to complete the regiments
now at Ticonderoga.
Your Excellency and Congress may be assured that every thing
possible for the safety and preservation of that important post shall
be attempted—but, at the same time, it is to be wished the means
may be found adequate to the end.
General St. Clair2 to General Schuyler.
Ticonderoga, June 13, 1777.
Dear General:—Here follows the substance of the information
given by two men from Canada, taken prisoners by one of our par
ties on Onion River:
1May 28th, General Poor wrote to General Follows that the garrison of
Ticonderoga consisted of two theusand two hundred and forty, rank and
file. On the 30th, General Gates inclosed copies of the above letters to the
President and Council of the Massachusetts Bay, and added: "The fifteen
hundred militia ordered from the County of Hampshire, are not one-third
arrived, and from what I hear they are likely to be very deficient. I beg
leave to assure you that there is not a moment to be lost. The safety of the
Northern frontier of the Eastern States requires the spirited exertions of
the powers of Government to save them from invasion." Sixth of June, the
Massachusetts Legislature directed that the various officers in tho counties
charged with raising troops bo required to provide the same, by draft if
necessary, by the 20th of the month. Very little attention seems to have
been paid to these orders.
2 General St. Clair arrived at Ticonderoga and assumed command on the
12th, the day before the above letter was written. He bad been instructed
by Congress as to the manner of completing the fortifications, and bad been
assured that the British would transfer the larger part of their forces by
water to aid General Howe in taking Philadelphia, which all, including
General Washington, thought to be the objective point of the present cam-
Con-espondence, Addresses, Etc. 397
That General Burgoyne is arrived in Canada, but has brought no
troops with him ; that the British army is assembling as fast as pos
sible at St. Johns ; that the light infantry, which they call the flying
army, commanded by General Fraser, is already advanced to Pointau-Fer;
that the whole army is said to consist of about ten thou
sand men, a part of which, with Indians under the, command of Sir
John Johnson, and Canadians under Captain Mackay, are to pene
trate the country by the Mohawk River, whilst the rest of the army
under General Burgoyne, crosses the lake to attack this place ; that
their fleet (a particular account of which is in the inclosed letter to
General Sullivan) is all in the lake, and we may depend on their
being here in a fortnight at farthest.
From the nature aud circumstance of the pass granted to one of
the two, which I here inclose, and his own account of the manner
in which he was sent from Montreal, viz. : to search for plans of the
country which he pretended to know were hid at Metcalfs, and his
being possessed of a considerable sum of Continental money, and
some gold and silver, I have the strongest suspicion of his being a
spy,1 aud have secured him as such and sent him down to you, both
paign, and that to coyer that movement a feint would be minu lowm-ds
Tieonderoga. This the Board of "War had received from reliable authority.
St. Clair was to prepare for the reception of a small British force, designed
to prevent any Enstern troops from being sent to the relief of Washington,
and this he was to do behind fortifications erected on ground commanded by
eminences within cannon shot. The British vessels controlled the lakes
and the only way he could procure information of the enemy was by send
ing scouts through an almost impenetrable forest lining the shores of the
lakes.
On his way to his post of duty, General St. Clair stopped at Albany to
confer with General Schuyler. The instructions of that officer were given
under date of Juno 5th. By those he was informed that " As the whelo of
our force in the Northern Department, if collected at Tieonderoga, would
not be capable of properly manning the extensive works on both sides of the
lake," it would be advisable to devote his first care to Mount Independence
which was the most defensible, and might be made to sustain a seige; that
frequent scouts should bo kept out as far as Crown Point; that the boom
should be strengthened by driving piles, so as to prevent the passing of ves
sels to the south end of the lake; that as provisions were scarce, great
economy should be exercised; that attention should bo given to requiring
the men to bo cleanly in order to preserve their health ; and gave him ten
thousand dollars for contingent expenses.
1 Amsbury, the supposed spy, when examined by General Schuyler, con.
firmed the story related to St. Clair. " He stated that the British forces
were approaching St. John's, and were to advance under General Burgoyne,
and also that a detachment of British troops, Canadians and Indians was to
398 The St. Clair Papers.
that you might have an opportunity to examine him yourself, and
that, if you should think of him as I do, he might be tried at Al
bany, where, should he be found guilty, the sentence will probably
be more adequate to the crime than here; for I find the officer, who
lately suffered a spy he had in charge to escape, through grossest
misconduct, has been honorably acquitted by a court-martial.
You will likewise find a letter from Colonel Bailey, containing
the intelligence brought by two Frenchmen sent down by General
Gates. Though their intelligence differs very materially, they agree
penetrate the country by the way of Mohawk River. He added otrmer par
ticulars respecting the strength and arrangements of the British army, which
turned out to be nearly accurate, but of which no intelligence had before
been obtained or anticipated; for it hud been a favorite idea with Congress
nnd the Commander-in-Chief that the British would not operate in force
l'rum Canada during the present campaign, but that the troops would be
chiefly brought round by water to reinforce General Howe. Hence the
small preparations for the defense of Ticonderoga, and for fornning a
Northern army."—Sparks, Vol. IV., p. 467.
General Washington commented on this information in a letter t«J Gen
eral Schuyler, under date of Juno 20th: "Supposing the plan mem tioned
in Amsbury's evidence to be true, I can not conceive that it will be in the
power of the enemy to carry it into execution; but to provide agai list all
events, I have ordered General Putnam to hold four Massachusetts regimen'8
in readiness at Peekskill to go up the river at a moment's warning, tand to
order sloops from Albany, which are to be kept for that purpose. I t does
not appear that Burgoyne has brought any reinforcements from Europe. If
this is so, he can not move with a greater force than five theusand men. He
certainly will never leave the garrison of Ticonderoga in his rear; t«nd if
he invests it to any purpose, he will not have a sufficient number left t«J sen^
one body from Oswego and another to cut off the communication be*wecn
Fort Edward and Fort George. As the garrison at Ticonderoga is sufficient
to hold it against any attack,1 I do not think it politic, under your i"epresentation
of the scarcity of provisions, to send up troops to consume what
ought to be thrown into the fort I draw a very favorable omen
from the intercepted letter to General Sullivan.2 It shews that they d^sPair
of carrying their Bchemc by force, and are reduced to the necessity of h^*vin£
recourse to the arts of flattery, bribery and intimidation."
1 General Washington did not have a clear conception of the nature of the -*^'or" at Ticonderoga, which he theught the enemy would have to assail directly in ^ront.
as in former wars; nor dkl he seem to understand that the troops ordered froir»- "*s"
sachusetts had not come in, notwithstanding the representations of General St. *!»"' and, before him, Generals Gates and Wayne. 2 Amsbury related that before leaving Montreal a Judge Levins had given t»-'m a
canteen, with instructions to give it to General Sulliv:tn, whem he supposed to i:on1' maud at Ticonderoga. and to request General Sullivan to remove a false botte^ro in the canteen, under which he would find a letter. Tho bottom was removed, &^K
letter found as described.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 399
in the circumstance of General Burgoyne's arrival ; and if these
fellows have really been sent by him to see what we are about, there
was no method more likely to procure them an easy reception than
that of giving an account of the preparations in Canada, and car
rying, or pretending to carry, letters from our friends. The letter
to General Sullivan may, notwithstanding, be genuine, and Amsbury
says it was written by one Michael Shannon. This name is
found upon a separate piece of paper, in a fair hand, which he
seemed unwilling to part with, and which I suppose to have been a
private signal by which he was to be known upon his return.
If the enemy intend to attack us, I assure you, sir, we are very illprepared
to receive them. The whole amount of Continental troops,
fit for duty, is fifteen hundred and seventy-six, rank and file, ex
clusive of Baldwin's artificers and Whitcomb's fifty-two rangers.
Besides these, there are three regiments of Hampshire militia, en
gaged for no particular term, and who go off whenever they please.
One hundred and fifty are gone since last return ; two regiments of
Massachusetts militia, of two hundred and fifty rank and file, fit for
duty, engaged for two months from their arrival, three weeks of
which with some of them is already expired.
Among the number returned sick there is no doubt but many
would be useful in case of necessity, but, at any rate, we can not
reckon upon more than twenty-two hundred men.
I am very much concerned to give you this disagreeable detail,
but I have something worse to add to it. We can not increase our
numbers by calling in the militia without ruin ; for, by the com
missary's return and the account of his weekly expenditure, there is
meat for seven weeks only on the ground, and he has no prospect
of any supply of salt meat, but from some place near Stillwater,
nor of fresh, but by sending to New England for it. This I have
desired to do, but must own I have little prospect of advantage from
it; for be assured that, and indeed every other communication,
may and will very easily be cut off. I have heard of some cattle
below Crown Point, which I shall send for to-morrow.
The bridge goes on tolerably well, but, indeed, is a very heavy,
troublesome job. The caissons, Colonel Baldwin says, will be all
sunk by the end of next week. In the meantime, I have ordered
the floating bridge to be removed to the lower side of them, which
will serve as a kind of second boom, and retard at least, if not pre
vent, the enemy's vessels from passing, should they attempt it.
A magazine of wood should be laid in immediately, but how to
effect it I know not, as there are no teams here of any kind, and
400 The St. Clair Papers.
not a stick Upon the Mount. All of the timber for the bridge is
hauled out of the woods by hand, and employs a much greater num.
ber of men than would otherwise be necessary , and might be employed,
and are wanted, for other purposes. What can the quartermaster
mean by leaving this place, where so many works are to be carried
on, without so necessary an article as draught-cattle?
The tents here are, in general, very bad. I must beg you, my
dear general, to hasten up the new tents, for I shall get no good of
the troops here, in any way, whilst they remain in barracks.
Our powder-magazines are in so wretched a state, that I am told
near fifty pounds of powder a week is damaged. In short, every
thing is so much out of order, that I will add no more to this list
of grievances, than to tell you we have no cartridge paper.
When I write again, I hope to have something more agreeable to
entertain you with.
P. S. I forgot to mention a paper in which Amsbury's money was
wrapped, and is also inclosed ; it is blurred and blotted, but you
will observe it contains a letter from Eph. Jones to his brother,
dated June 2d, about the time Amsbury left Montreal, and is a cor
roborating circumstance of the fellow's evil design.
I should have called upon the militia1 but for the state of our mag
azine. Should they come in fast, which I believe they would, they
might eat us out before either the arrival of the enemy or the sup
plies. Please give your direction on this head as soon as possible.
The bateaux are in ruin for want of pitch and tar, which Colonel
May says he has often wrote for.
Adams, the other of the prisoners, seems to be an innocent fellow,
and whom Amsbury brought off with him without knowing his er
rand ; he was taken by Mackay at the Sabbath-day Point.
•"It is evident from General St. Clair's letter that it will not be proper
to order up the reinforcement before it is really wanted; for he very judi
ciously observes that they will consume the stores. I can not conceive what
occasions the delay of the Massachusetts and New Hampshire Continental
troops; I have repeatedly written in the most pressing manner to have them
sent on, but in vain."—Washington to Schuyler in Utter before quoted.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 401
General St. Clair to General Schuyler.
Ticonderoga, June 18, 1777.
Dear General : —Inclosed you have the returns of the troops and
stores at this place, all except the clothier's, which is so drained, I
thought it needless to ask any from him, as he has almost literally
nothing.
Since my last, I have had constant scouts out, but have made no
discovery of the enemy, save that four of their vessels are lying
about a mile on the hither side of Split Rock ; they consist of two
ships and two gondolas; and on Friday last a schooner beat up
within four miles of Crown Point, but, without landing any of her
people or coming to anchor, returned down the lake.
Yesterday, about noon, we had two men, who had strolled out of
camp without arms, taken by a party of savages, who had stolen
down to the roadside by McIntosh's and the bridge, and concealed
themselves in the bushes ; they were immediately pursued as far as
Putnam's creek, but could not be overtaken ; unluckily, however,
they fell in with a scouting party I had sent down to discover the
motions of the enemy, but were upon their return, and fired upon
them unexpectedly. The officer is wounded, one man killed and
scalped, and one missing, but whether taken or not is as yet uncer
tain. Another party, that I had ordered to proceed to Point-auFer,
or wherever the enemy might be, returned last night, on dis
covering a large party of Indians on the east side of the lake, about
four miles above Crown Point. I think of sending to feel their
pulse to-night, as I am sure . it would be of consequence to give
these fellows a drubbing.
I am at a loss to form a judgment of the design of the enemy.
If they mean to attack us, one would think it indiscreet to put us
on our guard by such a trifling affair; and yet I can not think they
could prevail with any number of the savages to come on, unless
they had an army not far off to support them. Be that as it will, I
shall use every precaution possible against surprise, and will en
deavor to penetrate their designs. The same reason, notwithstand
ing our weakness, still prevails against calling for the militia as
when I wrote last, having as yet received no supply of meat, either
fresh or salt.
Do you know, sir, any thing about the terms upon which Captain
Whitcomb's corps was raised? He informs me that by General
Gates's orders he promised his people that they should have the 26
402 The St. Clair Papers.
same bounty as the troops of the State in which they were raised,
notwithstanding they were not part of their quota. This promise
has not been complied with, and they are held by a conditional
agreement only, which expires this day. I shall be able to retain
them, however, until you favor them with your answer.
I am making some improvements on the Mount, but that and the
Ticonderoga side have such dependence upon and connection with
each other that, in my opinion, it will be very dangerous to give up
either, and yet it is certain we can not, with our present numbers,
hold both. I design, however, to make the appearance of doing it,
and after defending Ticonderoga as long as possible, retreat to
Mount Independence.
Our guards are crowded with Tories ; they are dangerous here^
and can not be properly tried. I have ordered them to Albany.
The bridge goes heavily on ; the caissons not all sunk yet, but
the timber is almost all cut and in the water. The officers of the
fleet have not received commissions, and are very uneasy about it.
General St. Clair to James Wilson.
Ticonderoga, June 18, 1777.
Dear Sir:—This is the first time I have wrote to you since I left
Philadelphia, and am very sorry to make any complaints, but I am
much disappointed in the strength of the garrison and the state of the
fortifications at this place. Instead of their having been improved
during the winter, which was expected, they are much worse than
when I left them, a very strong abatis, in which the security of
Mount Independence chiefly consisted, having been almost entirely
burned up in the winter, and a great part of the breastwork de
stroyed.
This would be a matter of little consequence should it turn out
that the enemy have no designs upon us ; 1 that, however, is
l"From the enemy's situation in Jersey, collecting their force at Amboy
and Brunswick, and from their intentions last fall, confirmed by every piece
of intelligence we obtain this spring, it scarce admits a doubt that Philadel
phia is the object in view at the opening of this campaign. If this be their
aim, it appears to me highly probable, their army being greatly reduced
since the commencement of the last campaign, that they will bring round
all the troops from Canada to reinforce those here. What serves to confirm
me in this opinion is the facility with which a junction can be made in this
way, the necessity they are under of a reinforcement, and the great security
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 403
doubtful, though, by some intelligence I have received, I am
induced to think they are meditating an attack. Should this
be the case, I fear they will be but too successful, as our num
bers are greatly unequal to the vast extent of ground we must oc
cupy. I shall do the best, however, I can, and if they should not
be repulsed, I hope to see them so crippled as not to be able to pur
sue their journey. In serious earnest, this place has been too much
neglected, and it is disagreeable enough for a man to see himself in
a place from whence a retreat is impossible, with a force insufficient
for the defense of it, and that you will readily perceive. Our
works would demand ten thousand men, and I have not more than
twenty-two hundred. I shall endeavor, however, to support both
sides of the lake as long as it can be done, and finally retreat to the
Mount. Men, however, might be got here had we provisions, but
we are so short in that article that I dare not call in the militia, as
in a couple of weeks they would eat up the whole stock of meat.
We had one man killed and two taken prisoners by a party of In
dians yesterday, within sight of the out guards. They had con
cealed themselves in the bushes, and rushed suddenly upon some
unarmed men, who had strolled out a fishing. They were immedi
ately pursued, but without success, though their flight was so pre
cipitate that they dropped their packs and blankets. In their retreat
they fell in with a party that had been sent to make discoveries,
with whom they exchanged several rounds. The lieutenant that
commanded the party and one man are wounded, one killed and
scalped, and one missing. What injury they sustained is not known,
but it is probable they must have met with some loss, as they were
not more than ten steps distant when they fired. Another party
of Indians were discovered last night encamped on the east side of
the lake about four miles above Crown Point. I mean to speak
with them to-night, and if we can but give them a dressing it will
render them more cautious.
It is hard, with the little information we have, to form a judg
ment of the enemy's designs. This is certain, that General Burgoyne
has been arrived in Canada for some time, and he has not
the command of the lakes gives them against our incursions into Canada.
Under these considerations, I can not help thinking much too large a part
of our force is directed to Ticondoroga. Peekskill appears to me a much
more proper place, where, if the troops are drawn together, they will bo ad
vantageously situated to give support to any of the Eastern or Middle
States."—General Washington to General. Schuyler, March 12, 1777. Sparks,
Vol. IV., p. 858.
404 The St. Clair Papers.
come to pass the summer inactive. Perhaps he may take the troops
around to General Howe ; certain he will either take them there or
bring them here.
My dear friend, if you should not hear from me again, which
may probably be the case, remember that I have given you this ac
count of our situation, and do not suffer my reputation to be mur
dered after having been sacrificed myself.
The prospect may clear up yet, for all this.
Council of General Officers, held at Ticonderoga, on
Friday, the 20th of June, 1777.
Present—Major-General Schuyler, Major-General St. Clair, Briga
dier-General Roche de Fermoy, Brigadier-General Poor, and Briga
dier-General Patterson.
General Schuyler requested the council to take into consideration
the state of this post, with respect to the number of troops necessary
for its defense, the disposition of the troops and mode of defense,
the state of the fortifications, and the quantity of provisions that
may be depended upon.
The council having taken into their most serious consideration
the several matters stated in the first article, are clearly and unani
mously of opinion :
First—That the number of troops now at this post and Mount
Independence, which are under two thousand five hundred effective
rank and file, are greatly inadequate to the defense of both posts.
Second—That both posts ought, nevertheless, to be maintained as
long as possible, consistent with the safety of the troops and stores.
Third—-That if it should become necessary to evacuate one or the
other of the posts, and that it remains in one election which, that it
ought to be the Ticonderoga side.
Fourth—That such cannon and stores as are not immediately nec
essary on the Ticonderoga side, be removed without delay to
Mount Independence.
Fifth—That the fortifications and lines on Mount Independence
are very deficient, and that the repairing the old and adding new
works ought to claim immediate attention ; and that the engineers
be direected to repair and make the necessary fortifications.
Sixth—That the obstructions in the lake, to prevent the enemy's
naval force from getting into our rear, and thereby cutting off all
supplies, or preventing a retreat, if such a measure should unhap
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 405
pily become indispensably necessary, ought to be completed with all
imaginable dispatch.
Seventh—That so much remains to be done effectually to complete
the obstructions, that, with the few troops we have, there is no
great probability it can be done in less than six weeks.
Eiglrfh—That, although our forces may be adequate to maintain
our ground on Mount Independence, yet, unless a sufficient stock of
provisions can be thrown in before the arrival of the enemy, we
having now only thirty-nine days' provisions of meat kind, we think
it would be imprudent to expose the army to be made prisoners by
the enemy ; and that, therefore, it is prudent to provide for a re
treat ; to effectuate which, that all the bateaux now at this post be
immediately repaired, and as many as can be spared out of Lake
George be brought hither.
Ninth—That a quantity of provision of the meat kind should,
if possible, be immediately forwarded from Albany or elsewhere.
Tenth—That immediate application be made to his Excellency
General Washington, for a reinforcement to be sent on with all pos
sible expedition.
(Signed,) Philip Schuyler,
Arthur St. Clair,
Roche de Fermoy,
Enoch Poor,
John Patterson,
General Schuyler to General St. Clair.
Fort George, June 24, 1777.
I arrived here yesterday afternoon, and am now busied in arrang
ing matters a little, that stores may be forwarded with more regu
larity than heretofore.
In a day or two you will receive all the pork and salted beef now
at this post, fifty barrels only excepted. Eighteen barrels are only
come from Albany since March last. When the pork and other
articles are sent on, the flour will come in the large schooner only,
until you can have more time and spare cattle to transport it from
the landing to the saw-mills. Seven barrels of tar go over to-day,
and two of iron, with all the tents that are arrived here, together
with four boxes of axes, and about three hundred bushels of peas,
and about twenty new bateaux. These should be carried across the
soonest possible, and not suffered to be used. The remainder will
come on from day to day.
406 The St. Clair Papers.
Pray, oblige me with your commands for whatever you may need
for public or private use.
General St. Clair to General Schuyler.
Ticonderoga, June 24, 1777.
Dear General:—Sergeant Heath, who I sent down the lake to
make discoveries, returned last night, and informs me that on Tues
day last he saw two birch canoes going down the lake with sixteen
Indians and three white men in them, and supposes it was the party
that had done the mischief near the lines the day before. That
from a place near the mouth of Otter Creek, he saw three vessels,
under sail, beating up, one at anchor about one mile above Split
Rock, and the Thunderer behind it. From this place he likewise
descried an encampment of the enemy on both sides of Gilliland's
Creek ; that, from the appearance of it, and the extent, he thinks it
must contain a great body of men, and that number of smokes arose
at a distance back, which he supposes was from the encampment of
the Indians. That on Friday last, from Pointon, he saw twenty bat
eaux come out of Gilliland's Creek, and sail up the lake past the
Split Rock towards Ticonderoga ; that one of the inhabitants, iri
whom he could place confidence, informed him that the Indians
were very numerous ; that they frequently cross to the east side of
the lake, and that a party of them had been at his house a few min
utes before his arrival ; that he then returned to Otter Creek, where
he proposed to have halted to refresh his party, but, on being in
formed that a large party of Indians were at one Briton's, he made
the best of his way here. One of his party this day fell behind a
little, and was either taken or deserted ; he suspects the latter, be
cause he both waited for him, and sent back to look for him ; that
one Webb, another inhabitant, informed him that the enemy had
been four or five days at Gilliland's ; that they came up with a vast
number of bateaux and some gondolas ; that some of the troops
come over frequently, and say their whole army is there, and that
they are only waiting the arrival of the rest of their vessels and
stores, when they are to attack this place.
I have no doubt that a party of the enemy are at Gilliland's, nor
that their design is to come here, but not in my opinion to attack,
but to harass us, and give confidence to their savages, who, it is
more than probable, would not have been prevailed upon to under
take it without being joined by some regular troops.
Were they in force, it is improbable they would waste time at
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 407
such a distance, in a part of the country where they can find
nothing to refresh themselves ; and I do not find that they have
made any depredations on the east side.
It is not easy to judge of a force at a distant view of an encamp
ment, and Heath must have been six miles or more distant from
that on Gilliland's Point, a distance too great to determine any thing
with precision, although he had a glass to assist his eye. Besides,
I think the ground is not capable of encamping a great number (for
he insists on it they are not on high ground, but upon the beach
only), but of this you arc a much better judge than I, as I never
saw it but once. Be the matter as it may, I shall endeavor to guard
against surprise, and to discover both them and their designs ; and,
if opportunity offers, feel their pulse a little.
I had all the ground between this and Crown Point, from the
lake some distance over the mountains, well examined yesterday
with a heavy scout, but'they discovered no enemy, nor appearance
of any. Whitcomb says he is certain that there has not been any
Indians, but three, in that quarter since the prisoners were taken,
and that it was three or four days since these three had been there;
so that the Indians said to have been about us were, I believe, the
children of a disturbed imagination.
You had an exceedingly bad time to cross the lake, but I hope you
got well over, and without any injury to your health, though it
must have been exposed, as I doubt if you were not obliged to be
out a second night. I shall write again to you by express the mo
ment I make any farther discoveries.
Colonel James Wilkinson to General Gates.
Ticonderoga, H. Q., June 25th, 1777.
My Dear General : —I have not as yet, nor shall I in future, omit
one opportunity of communicating to you every material occur
rence in our department ; if my letters, therefore, should not roach
you, do not accuse mo of negligence or ingratitude, but ascribe this
circumstance to that insatiable gulf, which has ever swallowed up
all intelligence either to or from this post.
The enemy by gradual movements, which have been duly trans
mitted to General Schuyler, last evening arrived at Crown Point
with some vessels and a part of their army, who have encamped
on Chimney Point. We are induced to believe from a morning
gun, which was repeated down the lake, that their whole force is at
408 The St. Clair Papers.
Land, and as they have lately taken several prisoners, and the neigh
boring inhabitants have had free access to this camp, I am persuaded
they will obtain a true state of our weakness, which will indubitably
precipitate their operations : in which case the post is inevitably lost,
for if we risk a battle the inferiority of our numbers (without a
miracle, which we sinners have no right to expect) will subject us to
defeat and captivity ; and if we retire to Mount Independence, the
scantiness of our provisions will subject us to reduction by famine,
as the enemy, when in possession of this side of the lake, can easily
remove the obstructions up the south bay, and by their fleet cut off
our communication from Skenesborough. The militia are at our
command, but should wc call them in, immediate starvation is the
consequence, as General Schuyler has lately assured us that we have
no right or reason to expect more than three hundred barrels of
meat in addition, and we can not subsist our present small garrison
longer than seven weeks with what is on the ground. The distance
from whence our supplies arc derived, and the difficulty of trans
portation, both tend to embarrass us. In this cruel situation what
can be done? The most laudable measure, in my opinion, would
be to remove our heavy artillery and stores, and the convalescents
and invalids of the army, to Fort George. Being then light and
unincumbered, we might, if hard pushed, effect a retreat to that
post, which would enable us to check the enemy's progress ; on the
contrary, should we attempt to support this place in our present de
ficient situation, we lose all, and leave the country defenseless and
exposed. What, then, will there be to obstruct their favorite scheme
—a junction by the North River ? Nothing that I can discern. You
remember the state of arms I transmitted you on my first arrival
here ; I am sorry to inform you that they are not now better in
quality, or superior in number. Our men are harassed to extreme
weakness by fatigue, aud the strong guards which we are now
obliged to establish will in a little time quite break up their spirits
and constitutions. If fortitude, if enterprise, if perseverance or
temerity could avail, I would not complain ; but, in the name of
Heaven, what can bo expected from a naked, undisciplined, badly
armed, unaccoutercd body of men, when opposed to a vast superior
ity of British troops?
What can be done, the great St. Clair will effect ; but such is the
weakness of our numbers, that he can not form any plan of defense.
Of the two, I prefer death to captivity ; but be the event as it will,
I shall not disgrace my acquaintance.
General Schuyler has been here a few days, but is now in Albany.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 409
General St. Clair to General Schuyler.
Ticonderooa, June 2bth, 1777.
Dear General:—I informed you yesterday that an encampment
of the enemy had been discovered at Gilliland's Creek ; last night
two of their vessels came up to Crown Point, and this morning
there are seven lying at that place ; the rest of their fleet is proba
bly but a little lower down, as we hear their morning guns distinctly
at different places ; they also debarked some troops, and encamped
upon Chimney Point ; whether they have landed at Crown Point or
not, my scout-boat did not discover, not daring to venture far
enough down the lake, on account of the shipping ; but I have sent
out a scout on this side, which, I doubt not, will bring a just ac
count of their situation. I can not help repeating to you the disa
greeable situation we are in, nor can I sec the least prospect of our
being able to defend the post, unless the militia come in ; and,
should the enemy protract their operations, or invest us, and eontent
themselves with a simple stockade, we arc infallibly ruined.
I have thoughts of calling for the Berkshire militia, which are
nearest to us, and will probably be the most alert to come to our as
sistance, because they are in some measure covered by this post, but
on that I shall consult the other general officers. This, however, is
clear to me, that wc shall be obliged to abandon this side, and then
they will soon force the other from us, nor do I see that a retreat
will, in any shape, be practicable. Every thing, however, shall be
done that is possible, to frustrate the enemy's designs, but what can
be expected from troops ill armed, naked and unaccoutered ?
I shall write you again as soon as the scout returns.
General Schtjyler to General St. Clair.
Saratoga, Thursday Morning, June 2&th, 1777.
Dear General : —Your favor of the 24th was delivered to me last
evening. If the enemy should not mean a furious attack on your
post, their movement is probably calculated to cover an attempt on
New Hampshire, the Mohawk River, or to cut off the communica
tion between Fort George and Fort Edward, or, perhaps, all thesi •
I wish you, therefore, to keep a small scout on the east side of the
lake, near the road leading from St. John's to New Hampshire, and
others as far west as the road leading to the north branch of Hud
son's River.
r
410 The St. Clair Papers.
I have dispatched an express to Congress, to General Washing
ton, and have entreated the latter to afford us a reinforcement.
Pray let nothing be left at the landing, and the bateaux be brought
over as soon as possible, that your retreat may not be cut off, should
you be unable to maintain your post. I can not learn that any
troops are arrived at Albany. I shall hasten to that place to for
ward on whatever I can, and to be in the way to bring up the mili
tia, if necessary. God bless you, and believe me, etc.
General St. Clair to General Schuyler.
Ticonderoga, June 26th, 1777.
Sir :—This moment I have received information from Hoite, of
Otter Creek, that a large party of Indians and Tories are gone up
that creek, supposed to be five hundred, and are designed to cut off
the communication by Skenesborough. They took a pair of oxen
from oue of the inhabitants, and drove them about two miles above
Middlebury Falls, where they halted the day before yesterday, and
killed and dressed the cattle; and it is supposed that to-night they
will be at the new road, near Castletou, which is twenty-eight miles
from hence, and twelve or fourteen from Skenesborough. They re
ported that a very large party were gone on the west side of the
lake, tti fall upon Fort George. They are said to consist of a thous
and Indians and Canadians. We have also had, just now, another
attack at the mills. We have two men killed, two taken, and two
wounded—one mortally. The scene thickens fast, and Sunday
next, it seems, is fixed for the attack on this place. Wc must make
the best of it we can, and I hope at least to cripple them so as they
may not be able to pursue their fortune, should it declare in their
favor. I sent a party down last night to reconnoiter them, who
are not yet returned, which gives me some uneasiness. I hope, how
ever, they are safe, and will bring me some intelligence of conse
quence. I have some thoughts, if they are not numerous, of
attacking them. If they get the worst, it will oblige them to recall
their parties ; if not, there will be too many left to become prison
ers. I have sent to the Grants, to inform them of the Otter Creek
party, and to desire that all they can possibly spare of the militia
may be ready to march at a minute's warning.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 411
General St. Clatr to General Schuyler.
Ticonderoga, June 28, 1777.
Dear General:—My scout on which I depended much for intelli
gence, is not yet returned, nor, I fear, ever will now. It consists
of three men only, the best of WhitcombV people, and picked out
by him for that purpose. The woods are so full of Indians, that it
is difficult for parties to get through. I shall send off Whitcomb
himself presently, for intelligence I must have, although I am very
loath to put him upon it, lest he should fall into the hands of the
enemy, who have no small desire to have him in their power. I
sent Colonel Warner to the Grants, yesterday, to raise a body of
men to oppose the incursions of the savages that are gone by Otter
Creek, and have ordered him to attack and rout them, and join me
again as soon as possible. I am very happy to find that the country
have been apprised of the march of that party, before Warner got
to Skenesborough, as it may probably prevent their success, and
may end in their ruin. We are going on with the necessary works
on the Mount as fast as possible, and have removed the most val
uable of the stores and provisions on the other side. The bridge is
in very little more forwardness than when you left this place, to appearance,
though they tell me that to-day will finish getting timber
for it. The boom is likewise placed, but very feebly secured for
want of rope for the cables. A party of Bradford's arrived yester
day in good season, and had a pleasing effect upon our people, who,
never the most lively or gallant, began to show signs of dejection
already. How they may hold out, God knows, but this has raised
their spirits a little. I could wish that Jbe bateaux were all over
soon, or that you would not send them. I am extremely apprehen
sive that the enemy will possess themselves of the landing; in
which case they may fall into their hands. We can not venture the
teams now without a strong guard, and so many parties as we are
obliged to make with the fatigues, will very soon wear down our
men. We can do nothing but form conjectures about the force of
the enemy, for I can not find a single person on whom I can depend
to venture amongst them for intelligence ; but from their manner
of beginning the campaign, I conclude they are either in full force
or very weak, and hope, by letting loose the Indians, to intimidate
1 Captain Whitcomb was a noted scout, and was relied on to select men tn
act as spies, etc.
412 The St. Clair Papers.
us. I in-lme Jo believe the last, but have, as yet, no certain rule
to go by; however, we must know soon, and it is said they have
marked to-morrow to attack. I beg leave to refer you to Colonel
Varick for further particulars, who takes the charge of this letter.
General Schuyler to General St. Clair.
Albany, June 28, 1777. —11 o'clock a. m.
Your favor of the 2oth instant is this moment delivered to iue.
It seems as if the enemy mean a real attack on your post. I shall
move the militia of this State as soon as I can collect them, and dis
patch messengers to the Eastern States for as many as they can
send.1 The militia from Tyrone county I shall order to be kept in
readiness to protect the Western frontiers, having just received in
telligence that Sir John Johnson is on his way to attack us in that
quarter.
God bless and protect you, and the troops under your command.
I shall exert myself to afford you every assistance I possibly can.
Your favor of the 2(Sth is just come to hand. I have dispatched
a copy of it to General Washington, and to the Council of Safety
of this State. The orders for the militia to march up are already
expedited.
General Schuyler to General Washington.
Albany, June 28th, 1777. —11 o'clock a. M.
Dear Sir:— ... I am this moment favored with a letter
of the 25th instant, from Getieral St. Clair, a copy whereof I
herewith transmit. Should an accident happen to the garrison of
Ticonderoga, and General Burgoyne make a push to gain the south
part of the lake, I know of no obstacle to prevent him ; compara
tively speaking, I have not a man to oppose him ; the whole unm1
General Sehuyler wrote on the same day to the President of Massa
chusetts Bay, saying: "Our garrison at Ticonderoga is greatly inadequate
to the defense of the extensive works on hoth sides of the lake, and I have
unhappily no troops to reinforce them." "I have written to the committee
of Berkshire, and requested them to call upon the adjacent counties and dis
tricts in that State and Connecticut. .Should (he militia turn out with spirit,
I am in hopes we shall be able to baffle the enemy." But the militia did not
turn out, and nothing was done to aid in defense until after the evacuation
of the posts, and the people feared the British more than they regarded their
own comfort.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 413
ber at the different posts at and on this side of the lake, including
the garrison's of Fort George and Skenesborough not exceeding
seven hundred men, and these I can not draw away from their
several stations; in every one of which they are already much too
weak. It is, therefore, highly necessary that a strong reinforce
ment should, without delay, be sent -ue. If the sloops are not yet'
sent to bring the troops, your Excellency has ordered to be kept in
readiness at Peekskill, I shall push them off without delay. As it
is not probable that we shall in time be supplied with field pieces
from the eastward, I must entreat that the reinforcements may
bring some up with them. I have this moment also received a let
ter from Mr. Dcane, the Indian interpreter, extracts whereof I in
close you. As the information tallies exactly with what I had be
fore, it leads me to conclude that an irruption will be made from the
westward. I shall apply for the aid of the militia of this and the
neighboring States, but I fear it will not be very powerful, as many
must be necessarily left at home. I have received a letter from the
Commissary-General, which I think neither so temperate or decent
as it should be. I shall take the first leisure hour to transmit 3'ou a
copy, with my answer, in which I believe it will be evinced from
authentic returns, that the scarcity of provisions in this department
is, in a great measure, if not altogether, to be imputed to a want of
attention in the persons whose duty it was to supply this depart
ment.
P. S.—I have sent express to General Putnam to hasten on the
troops your Excellency had ordered to be in readiness for this quarter.
Since writing the above, I have received another letter from Gen
eral St. Clair, a copy whereof is inclosed. I am in pain about Fort
George, but have no troops to throw in, and some time will neces
sarily elapse before the militia can be got to march.
General St. Clatr to General Schuyler.
Ticonderoga, June 30, 1777. —1:30 o'clock.
Dear General :—This morning some of the enemy's gun-boats ap
peared at the Three-Mile Point, when the alarm was given. We
could see them disembark a number of men, and the boats in
creased to eighteen, which are now lying abreast from the hither
side of the Point to about half-way across the lake. The bateaux
in which they transported their troops are not come in sight, lying
on the far side of the Point, under cover of it.
414 The St. Clair Papers.
Soon after their landing, a party, chiefly Indians and Canadians,
pushed towards our lines. As we had a scout down the lake at the
time of their arrival, I immediately sent out two parties to support
them and bring them off. The scouts fell in with the enemy, and
after a few shots, in which they say some of the Indians were
killed, they, being overpowered by numbers, dispersed, and part of
them have got in, and I have little doubt but the greatest jmrt of
them will yet make their appearance. It is probable, however, that
some of them have fallen into their hands. We have had one or
two alarms before this, but it was occasioned by their boats coming
up near our guard-boats, and their firing upon them.
My people are in the best disposition possible, and I have no
doubt about giving a good account of the enemy, should they think
proper to attack us ; and if the person I mentioned to you in my last
pursued the opportunity that now presents itself, they will go back
faster than they came on. He has above a thousand men.
General St. Clair to Lieutenant-Colonel Hay.
[Instructions.] TlCONDEROGA, July 1, 1777.
Sir : —I wish you to go with the party ordered to escort the wag
ons to-morrow to Lake George Landing, and direct the loading of
the most valuable and necessary articles first, which will be deliv
ered at the hither landing and embarked on board the scow, which
must be sent up for that purpose, and forwarded to this place. The
wagons will then return, and bring what remains to camp, under
the convoy of Colonel Cockburn, who I wish to consult with you
about every thing necessary. You will order Captain Hutchins,
who commands at the landing, after every thing is removed, or can
he removed, to fit out and man all the bateaux at the landing, or
as many of them as his and Lieutenant Lyford's party can manage,
and proceed with them to Fort George, taking for the signal of their
departure the burning of the block-housed and mills at the hither
landing, which you will direct the officer commanding there to exe
cute and retreat to the lines, forming the rear guard for Colonel
Cockburn. I wish as many of Lieutenant Lyford's party to re
turn here as possible ; but if the landing of the bateaux demand
them, they must all go, and they and Captain Hutchins' party re
turn to this place by Skenesborough or the lake, as either commu
nication may be open.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 415
Any bateaux that can not be carried off from the landing must
be destroyed.
General St. Clair to General Schuyler.
TlCONDEROGA, Jah) 1, 1777.
Dear General:—Not finding a convenient opportunity to send off
my letter, I have the pleasure to acknowledge the receipt of your
letter of the 28th. The success of General Washington over Gen
eral Howe is an event of such importance as must destroy every
prospect of the enemy's carrying their plans into execution, should
they succeed here. I have ordered a feu-de-joie upon the occasion,
and will find some way to communicate the intelligence to the en
emy. They have now two ships, eighteen gun-boats, and three
sloops, lying off the Three-Mile Point, and they are forming a camp
upon the point, and retrenching it. This does not look like their
being strong. Other matters I hope to manage to-morrow morning,
but can not be particular, for fear of accidents.
P. S. This moment I have discovered that they are throwing a
boom across the river. Bravo ! 1
General St. Clair to General Schuyler.
Ticonderoga, July 2, 1777.
Dear General:—Yesterday at noon, in the very instant of the
feu-de-joie, which consisted of thirteen pieces of cannon (the mus
ketry might have discovered to the enemy our numbers), forty-one
bateaux appeared off the Three-Mile Point, crossed the lake, and
landed troops on the east side, in the bay formed behind the Long
Point, opposite to the Three-Mile Point. I observed them very at
tentively, and am certain they did not contain, en an average, above
twenty men. It is not improbable, however, that part of the troops
transported in them from Canada may have landed on the western
side, so low down as to be out of our sight, and I am rather inclined
to think this the case, from their camp extending a considerable
distance down the lake, and its being much too large for the number
of men we saw embark at the Point.
1 The hope now was that Burgoyne had few troops with him (and the great
precaution taken in throwing up works gave color to the theory), in which
case the defense of Ticonderoga would seem to be practicable.
416 The St. Clair Papers.
I am in great pain for the bateaux and stores at the landing. We
can not possibly got them over (the enemy having possessed them
selves of Mount Hope), without risking such large detachments as
must oblige us to come to action in the open field, which would not
be altogether prudent. I had ordered a party to bring them off
this morning, but the escape of some of the cattle, and the stupid
ity of the drivers, retarded us so much that day appeared , and it
was then too late to attempt it. The design was, therefore, laid
aside, and a party sent to reinforce the party at the landing, with
orders to take back the stores to Fort George, and all the bateaux,
destroying the block-house and such bateaux as they might not be
able to carry off. At the same time, I sent orders to the block-house
at the mills, which has been attacked several times, and was sur
rounded yesterday all day, for the officer to set fire to it and the
mills, and to retire to camp, which he has this moment effected.
The party gone over with the boats I have desired to return to
Skcnesborough. It will be of the utmost importance to secure that
communication, which I have no doubt of your being able to do ;
and when the Grant people come in, I hope to keep open that by
Castleton. A party of them, with cattle, should have been here
yesterday. I hope no accident has happened to them.
The inhabitants who live between this and the bridge, I found it
necessary to bring within the lines, and have now sent them to
Skenesborough, with directions to Captain Grey to forward them to
Albany by the first opportunity. I do not know that they are our
enemies, but they are certainly not our friends, and when the enemy
first presented themselves they were through their houses, and they
gave us no intelligence of them.
I am still of opinion that the enemy have no great force here, but
whether the whole of their army may as yet come up I am not cer
tain, but last night they fired their evening gun from three different
places, further down the lake than their post at Three-Mile Point.
A little time will clear up this matter. I am not sufficiently ac
quainted with this country to form any judgment how a body of
men can be sent out to our relief, in case the enemy possess them
selves of the shores of the lake above Mount Independence, which
they certainly will by means of their savages ; but if they can be
brought by land in their rear, a small party would oblige them to
quit the lake, and consequently leave the communication open.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 417
James Wilson to General Arthur St. Clair.
Philadelphia, M July, 1777.
My Dear General:—Doctor McKenzie sets out for Ticonderoga;
I embrace, with pleasure, the opportunity of writing to you by him.
Some time ago, the enemy advanced from Brunswick as far as
Somerset Court-house. It is probable that their design was to push
for Philadelphia; this, at least, was believed, and the belief pro
duced the best effects. The militia of New Jersey turned out with
the greatest rapidity ; and, to a man, the citizens of Philadelphia
agreed to suspend their disputes about the Constitution and to join
unanimously in every measure proper for repelling the enemy and
defending the State. General Washington kept his strong encamp
ment at Middlebrook. The body under General Sullivan, consist
ing of militia and reinforcements of Continental troops from the
southward, was increasing very fast at Coryell's Ferry. General
Howe thought it proper to retire from Somerset to Brunswick, from
Brunswick to Amboy ; and lately, from Amboy to Staten Island.
These different movements have produced frequent skirmishes, with
the advantage generally on our side ; once, on that of the enemy, if
gaining three field-pieces from us and losing, according to the best
accounts, a much greater number of men than we lost, can be called
an advantage. Concerning the future views of the enemy the sen
timents expressed here are very different. Some think they mean
to push up the North River ; others, that they will make an irrup
tion into New England ; others, that they will come round by sea
to Delaware ; others, that they know not what to do. Indeed, I
think it probable that their plan for the campaign, if they had a
plan, is very considerably deranged. We hear of no reinforcements
worth mentioning being arrived from Europe.
As to the polities of Pennsylvania, they are not in the situation I
would wish. If a regular system was formed between General
Howe and the friends of our Constitution, his motions could not
have been better timed for them than they have been in two dif
ferent instances. When an opposition has been twice set on foot,
and has twice proceeded so far as to become formidable, he has
twice, by his marches toward Delaware, procured a cessation. The
Assembly have twice taken advantage of it to promote tlieir own
purposes, though those in the opposition generously, and like true
patriots, have suspended it, while the approach of the enemy were
dreaded. The Assembly, just before their adjournment, and just
after their laudable instance of conduct was exhibited, have branded 27
418 The St. Clair I apers.
themselves in a public address to the people, with carrying on thenopposition
in a manner improper under any government. They
have agreed, however, at last, to take the sentiments of the people
with regard to a convention.1 What will be the event, I am un
certain. They have one useful quality ; it would be a virtue if ex
erted for a good purpose. I mean, industry. This is much wantod
on the other side. As the sense of the people will not be taken till
after the next election, I have some expectation that their eyes may
be opened to see their true interest by that time.
I long much to hear from you. What I intimated to you long
ago has happeued. I hope you will be happy. I know you will
be useful at Ticonderoga. A good correspondence, I have every
reason to believe, will subsist between Geueral Schuyler and you.
If he is at Ticonderoga, please to present my compliments to him.
Colonel Seth Warner to the Convention of the State op
Vermont at Windsor.
Rutland, the 2d of July, 1777.
Gentlemen : —I have last evening reciev'd an Express from the
General Commanding at Ticonderoga who informs me the Enemy
have come on with seventeen or eighteen Gun Boats, two large
Ships, several Sloops and other Craft, and lie at the three Mile
Point, and the General expects an attack every Hour. —the Enemy
put to land on sd Point, and they have had a skirmish, but the
General informs me to no great purpose. Orders me to send for
the Militia to join him as soon as possibly they can get there, from
this State, and the Massachusetts and New Hampshire. I have
sent an Express to Col. Simons, went off last night. Col. Robinson
and Col. Williams is now at Hubbardton waiting to be join'd by
Col. Bellows who is now with me. When the whole join they will
make in No. about 7 or 800 Men. I know not where to apply but
to you to raise the Militia on the east side of the Mountain.2 Shall
1 Popular sentiment was averse and compelled a rescinding of the resolu
tion. A convention was not secured for several years.
2 The Vermont Convention took immediate action to apprise New Hamp
shire and Massachusetts. After an explanation of the express, Governor
Howker added: "Therefore, as the matter nearly concerns the liberties of
the United States in general, this House flatter themselves that their for
warding this intelligence may not prove unacceptable. The militia from
this State are principally with the officer commanding the Continental army
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 419
expect that you send on all the men that can possibly be raised, and
that you will do what lies in your Power to supply the troops at
Ticonderoga with Beef, as, if the siege should be long, they will ab
solutely be in want of meat kind except the country exert them
selves—if 40 or 50 head of cattle could be brought on with the Mi
litia they will be paid for by the Commissary on their arrival. The
safety of that consists much on the exertions of the Country, them
lines are so much in want of Men. I should be glad a few hills of
corn unhoed should not be a motive sufficient to detain men at
home, considering the loss of such an important Post can hardly be
recover'd. I am, Gentlemen, in the greatest respect your most obe
dient and very humble serVt, Seth Warner.
P. S. —I am this moment a going to mount my Horse in company
with Col. Bellows for Ticonderoga. I left Col. Robinson at Hubbardton
this morning.
That you may have wisdom to conduct in the business for which
you are called together is the prayer of S. W.
General St. Clair to General Schuyler.
Ticonderoga, July 3, 1777.
Dear General :—Our picket was attacked yesterday two or three
times, in which we lost five men killed and two or three wounded.
The enemy's loss we are not apprised of, but we have one prisoner
of the FoVty-Seventh regiment, and two deserters from the corps of
Jagers. The prisoner was very sulky, and would give no informa
tion whatever ; but by disguising an officer, a countryman of his,
and confining him in the same room with him, with the help of a
little rum, we got out all he knew, which we have here inclosed, as also
the examination of the deserters. Two men came in from the
Grants last night, and returned. I have wrote very pressingly for
the people to come on, and for the present leave the cattle to be
brought up by those who succeed them. I think it is probable
Warner will fall in with the foreigners, who are all on the east side
Ht Ticonderoga; the remainder on their march to that distressed post. It
appears to this House from the various information from thence, and the
personal acquaintance of many of the members thereof of the particular
circumstances which attend our friends there at this present time, that every
prudent step ought to bo immediately taken for their relief." Vermont's
quota, led by Warner and Francis, reported promptly, but nothing was
heard from the other States.
420 The St. Clair Papers.
of the lake ; the British troops upon the west. Excuse this scrawl ;
I am so much in want of sleep that I am nodding as I write.
The Evacuation of Ticonderoga and Mount Independence.
At a council of general officers, held at Ticonderoga July 5, 1777,
present, Major-General St. Clair, Brigadier-Generals Roche de Fermoy,
Poor, Patterson, and Colonel-Commandant Long:
General St. Clair represented to the council that as there is every
reason to believe that the batteries of the enemy are ready to open
upon the Ticonderoga side, and that the camp is very much exposed
to their fire, and to be enfiladed on all quarters ; and as there is also
reason to expect an attack upon Ticonderoga and Mount Independ
ence at the same time, in which case neither would draw any sup
port from the other ; he desired their opinion, whether it would be
most proper to remove the tents to the low ground, where they
would be less exposed, and wait the attack at the Ticonderoga lines—
or whether the whole of the troops be drawn over to Mount Inde
pendence, the more effectually to provide for the defense of that
post. At the same time the General begged leave to inform them
that the whole of our force consisted of two thousand and eightynine
effectives, rank and file, including one hundred and twenty-four
artificers (unarmed), besides the corps of artillery, and about nine
hundred militia, who have joined us, and can not stay but a few
days.
The council were unanimously of the opinion that it is impossible,
with our force, to defend Ticonderoga and Mount Independence, and
that the troops, cannon and stores should be removed this night,
if possible, to Mount Independence.
Second—Whether, after the division of the army at Ticonderoga
have retreated to Mount Independence, we shall be in a situation to
defend that post, or, in case it can not be defended, if a retreat into
the country will be practicable.
The council are unanimously of opinion that, as the enemy have
already nearly surrounded us, and there remains nothing more to
invest us completely but their occupying the neck of land betwixt
the lake and the East Creek, which is not more than three quarters
of a mile over, and possessing themselves of the narrows betwixt
that and Skenesborough, and thereby cutting off all communication
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 421
•with the country, a retreat ought to be undertaken as soon as possi
ble, and that we shall be very fortunate to effect it.1
Arthur St. Clair,
Roche de Fermoy,
Enoch Poor,
John Patterson,
Pierse Long.
General St. Clair to Joseph Bowker, President of the
Convention of the State of Vermont.
Colonel Mead's, At Otter Creee, July 1th, 1777.
Sir:—I was honored with your favor of the 2d instant this day.
The exertions of the Convention to reinforce us 'at Ticonderoga,
merit my warmest thanks, though they have been too late to answer
the good purpose they intended. Finding that the enemy were
ready for the attack, and it was morally impossible we could main
tain the post with our handful of troops, and at the same time con
sidering how necessary to the Slates it was to preserve our army,
small as it is, it was determined in a council of the general offi
cers that the posts on Ticonderoga and Mount Independence should
be evacuated, and a retreat attempted to Skenesborough, by the way
of Castleton, and that every thing we could remove, with the sick,
should be takeu by water to the same place, covered by the armed
1"Soon after I had despatched the letter, which I did myself the honor
to address to your Excellency from Stillwater, I met with Lieutenant-Colo
nel Hay, Deputy Quartermaster General, who was at Ticonderoga. He in
formed me that on Saturday it had been agreed upon to retreat from
Ticonderoga and Mount Independence; that between two and three o'clock
on Sunday morning, General St. Clair, with the rest of the general officers
and the army, marched out of the lines at Mount Independence; that Colo
nel Long, with about six hundred men, embarked aboard our few vessels,
and in bateanx; that just before they arrived at Skcnesborough they were
overtaken by the enemy's vessels and gunboats, and were obliged to abandon
the vessels, in which we lost all our ammunition. . . . The troops of
Colonel Long are arrived at Fort Ann. Where General St. Clair is, with the
main body, I have not yet learned. Colonel Hay imagined he would come
by the way of Skenesborough. If so, he will fall in with the enemy, who
have taken possession there."—General Schuyler to General Washington, July
7, 1777. Sparks' Corresp. of Rev.,Vo\. I., p. 393.
General St. Clair, hearing of the enemy being at Skenesborough, changed
the direction of his march, as will be seen by the letter following, but for
several days both General Washington and Schuyler, receiving none of the
letters sent by messengers, were in great anxiety as to bis fate.
422 The St. Clair Papers.
vessels. This was accordingly attempted the night of the sixth,
and in part executed, though not so perfectly as I could have
wished, with respect to the stores, owing to the confusion that
naturally attends operations in the night, and to the want of that
regularity that nothing but discipline and experience can give troops,
and just at break of day the army got on their march, unperceived
by the enemy, although they were all around us, and should have
effected it perfectly, had it not been for the burning of a house,
whether from accident or want of thought I can not say, but it
served to inform the enemy of our retreat, and a party of them
were on the Mount before the whole of our people had got off
of it. They did not attempt, however, to pursue us, but only fired
a few shots from the heights, which did us no damage. We pur
sued our route to Castleton, which we reached last night, with the
main body, having met on our way a party of the enemy, who had
been collecting cattle in the country. These were immediately dis
persed, and a few prisoners taken. Colonel Warner, with about a
thousand men, stopped six miles short of Castleton, where he was
attacked this morning. The event of the action I can not as yet
ascertain, the accounts are so various from the persons who have
come in ; but I believe it has been pretty severe on both sides. I
am now on my march to Bennington, which place I am obliged to
make on account of provisions, the enemy having last night posses
sed themselves of Skenesborough, of which I got intelligence this
morning, which determined me to take the road for that place, and
there I beg that the reinforcements coming on by Number Four
may be sent, as I shall immediately march from thence for the North
River, and endeavor to throw myself betwixt the enemy and the in
habitants, and prevent Mr. Burgoyne from penetrating into the
country.
I must beg that all the flour that can be got may be sent for
ward.
I have wrote to the first commanding officer of the militia to take
the shortest road to Bennington, with directions to send the same
orders to such others as may be already on this side Number
Four.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 423
General St. Clair to General Schuyler.
Dorset, 8th, July, 1777.—9 o'clock.
Dear Sir:—About an hour ago I received your favor of yester
day. I wrote you from Ticonderoga, the night before we left it, to
inform you that I intended to march to Skenesborough by way of
Castleton, and from thence to Fort Edward ; but when I got to
Castleton I found the enemy were in possession of Skenesborough,
which obliged me to change my route.
On the march to Castleton, we fell in with a party, commanded
by Captain Fraser, who had been collecting cattle in the country.
These were immediately dispersed, and a few prisoners taken; but,
being reinforced by a strong detachment from Ticonderoga, they
attacked, in the morning, the rear-guard of our army, who had
imprudently stopped six miles short of the main body, and were, I
believe rather surprised;1 notwithstanding which, they made a very
1 ".is soon as General Burgoyne discovered our retreat, ... he dis
patched Brigadier-General Fraser, supported by Major-General Riedesel and
a German corps, in pursuit of the main body. . . . General Fraser,
after a vigorous pursuit, encamped several miles in the rear of Warner, but
renewed his march the next morning, and about sever, o'clock reached Hubbardton,
just as Warner had paraded his men to follow General St. Clair,
who was under arms, waiting his arrival, when the firing commenced,
which was confined to small arms. Two militia regiments, which were ex
ceedingly insubordinate and seditious, had, the preceding evening, taken a
diverging path, and encamped three or four miles in our rear. The first
thought of the general was to support Warner by those corps under the com
mand of Colonel Bellows; for which purpose his aids-de-camp, Majors Dunn
and Livingston, were hurried off with positive orders and assurances of sup
port. He then ordered the troops to be told off, and the officers posted for
action, and he was exhorting them to courageous conduct, when I perceived
a manifest repugnance in a corps to turn about and march upon the enemy.
Even one of the brigadiers was open in his opposition to the measure. In
the meantime, Majors Dunn and Livingston met the militia under Bellows,
hurrying away from the scene of the action to the main body, and, finding
them equally deaf to commands and entreaties, they pushed forward towards
the field of battle, which they had nearly reached, when they met our troops
flying from the enemy, and were informed by Captain Chadwick, a gallant
officer who had been engaged, that tho conflict had terminated, which, be
ing warranted by the cessation of the fire, they returned to the general and
made report.
" Colonel Warner was a hardy, valiant soldier, but uneducated, and a
stranger to military discipline. His insubordination at Hubbardton exempli
fies the danger and misfortunes which attended the disobedience of military
commands; for, if he had obeyed the orders he had received, our corps
424 The St. Clair Papers.
obstinate defense, and, I have good reason to think, killed and
wounded a great number of the enemy. As they were at too
great a distance from me to support them, I sent orders to Colonel
Warner, who commanded the party, in case he found himself too
hard pressed, to retreat to Rutland and join me. He is not yi -i
come in, though I have heard that he is coming in with ahout :;
hundred men ; and a great part of the other regiments, except
Hale's, have already joined us.
I am in great distress for provisions. If I can be supplied at
Manchester, I shall proceed directly for Fort Edward, or Saratoga,
as circumstances may direct ; if not, I shall be obliged to go to
Bennington. I account myself very happy in effecting this retreat,
as the loss of the army, small as it is, would have been a blow
that this part of the country would have felt severely, and that
must inevitably have happened in a very few days. Adieu, my
dear general ; I hope to see you soon, or things in a better train.
General St. Clair to Jonas Fay, Secretary State of Ver
mont.
Colonel Marshe's, July 9<A, 1777.
Sir:—I have just now received a letter from General Schuyler,
directing that Colonel Warner's regiment, with the militia of your
State, should be left for the protection of the people; and I have
by this conveyance wrote to the Colonel to acquaint him thereof.
The General also desires that all the cattle may be drove further
down than where it may be thought proper that Colonel Warner
take post, and that all the carriages which may be of use to the
enemy be brought off or destroyed. He also desires that all the
cattle in condition for killing may be sent out by a safe route to
Fort Edward, where he now is with some Continental troops and
militia. A large reinforcement from Peckskill arc on their march
from Albany to join him, and, if I can be supplied with provision
at Manchester, I shall also join him with the utmost expedition,
where we shall have force sufficient to check the progress of the
enemy. Your Convention have given such proofs of their readiness
to concur in any measure for the public safety, that it would be im
pertinent to press them now ; I will only repeat the request I made
would have been united, ittid. ns the discipline of the enemy could have
availed them little in a mountainous country covered will) wood, we should
infallibly have dismembered, and, probably, captured the flower of the Brit
ish army."— Wilkinson! s Memoirs, Vol. I., p. 187.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 425
before, that the militia from the eastward, marching by No. 4, may
be directed to take the shortest route to join the army.
P. S. —Previous to the receipt of your letter of the 6th inst., I
had directed the militia of your State that were with me to remain
at Rutland for the protection of the people, until your Convention
should direct otherwise, and am pleased to find myself in sentiment
with them, and with General Schuyler. The militia that can be
raised in your country will, I think, keep the people in security, for
in my opinion they have little to fear except the depredations of a
few Indians. Fort Ann was attacked the day before yesterday, and
the enemy repulsed with considerable loss.
[True copy, examined by Isracl Allen, Secretary.]
General St. Clair to Governor Bowdoin.
Manchester, July 9, 1777.
I have just time to mention the receipt of your obliging letter of
the 20th ult., which came to hand this moment. As the evacuating
Ticonderaga must have alarmed the country, and raised their curi
osity at the same time, permit me to give you some account of that
matter, with the reasons that induced me to propose it to the other
general officers.
The garrison consisted of about thirty-three hundred men, of whom
two thousand and eighty-nine only were fit for duty, many of those
mere boys, altogether incapable of sustaining the fatigues of a soldier,
naked and ill-armed, not above one bayonet to every tenth man ; the
place nearly invested, and their batteries completed ; and, from the
intelligence of my spies, the investiture was to be completed on
Sunday last, the day we left it, when all possibility of retreat or
support would be cut off. The loss of this army, small as it is, was
the inevitable consequence, and would have been a very great mis
fortune, much greater, in my opinion, than the loss of the past, as
there would have been nothing left for the militia to collect to, in
this quarter, to stop the progress of an enemy flushed with con
quest. I therefore determined to attempt a retreat whilst it was
practicable, but previously consulted the other general officers, who
were unanimously of opinion that it ought to be attempted without
loss of time.
We accordingly prepared for it that night, and having, in the
course of the night, embarked as many of our stores and provisions
426 The St. Clair Papers.
as possible, marched off at break of day. "We should have got off
altogether imperceived by the enemy, had it not been for the acci
dental burning of a- house, and the desertion of two men, of the
artillery, who, hi the hurry, went off with a small boat to the enemy.
The rear of our army evacuated Mount Independence as the front
of the enemy entered. They exchanged a few shots, but did not
offer to pursue, which I ascribe to their being the Brunswickers that
took possession. A considerable body,- however, were sent up a
creek that enters some distance in the country, who, next morning,
attacked our rear guard ; they defended themselves very well, and,
though obliged to retreat, killed aud wounded a great many of the
enemy ; since which we have seen nothing of them. My design
was to have marched to Skenesborough, but the enemy had got be
fore me, which obliged me to change my route, and bear this way,
on account of provisions, which I shall be able to obtain to-iraorrow,
when I shall proceed, with every possible dispatch, to join General
Schuyler at Fort Edw:ard, where I hope we shall soon have an army
of force sufficient to stop the progress of Mr. Burgoyne.
The force of the enemy is seven British regiments, eight foreign
ones, and a number of Indians and Canadians. On the wlole, I
think myself very happy to make my retreat from under theix- nose.
General St. Clair to John Hancoce, President of Congress.
Fort Edward, WthJuhj, 17*77.
Sir:—Congress may probably think it extraordinary that so much
time has elapsed before they heard from me, after a step of so much
consequence as the evacuation of the posts that had been entrusted
to my care; but it was not in my power to write whilst »n the
march to this place. I am sorry to find that my letter to General
Schuyler, the night the evacuation took place, has not come "*o u19
hands, as, for want of that, though he has, doubtless, informed Con
gress of the event, he could not give them the reasons that inc3uced
it—they were these: Seeing the posts of Ticonderoga aud J,lount
Independence were nearly invested, and having intelligence bj?i m7
spies, that they would be completely so in twenty-four hours, -when
we should be cut off from the possibility of succor ; that the5 bat
teries of the enemy were ready to open, and the whole of oi« " c'n"
campment on the Ticonderoga exposed to their fire. Conside Jmgi
at the same time, the weakness of the garrison ; that the effe-*uve
numbers were not sufficient to man one-half of the works, and "*hat>
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 427
consequently, the whole must be upon constant duty, which they
could not possibly long sustain, and that, of course, the places with
their garrisons must inevitably, in a very few days, fall into the
enemy's hands, I saw no alternative but to evacuate them and
bring off the army ; whereupon, I called the general officers to
gether, to take their sentiments. They were unanimously of opinion
that the places should be evacuated without the least loss of time;
and it was accordingly set about that night, the fifth instant. After
embarking in the boats as much of our cannon, provisions, and
stores as was possible, the boats were ordered to Skenesborough, and
I sent Colonel Long, an active, diligent, good officer, to take the
command there, with his regiment and the invalids, until I should
join him with the army, which was to march to that place by the
way of Castleton. The body of the army reached Castleton the
next evening, thirty miles from Ticonderoga, and twelve from
Skenesborough ; but the rear guard, under Colonel Warner, which,
with the stragglers and infirm, amounted to near twelve hundred,
stopped short of the place six miles, and were next morning at
tacked by a strong detachment the enemy had sent to hang on our
rear and retard our march. Two regiments of militia, who had left
us the evening before, and halted about two miles from Colonel
Warner, were immediately ordered to his assistance, but, to my
great surprise, they marched directly down to me ; at the same time
I received information that the enemy were in possession of Skenes
borough, and had cut off all our boats and armed vessels. This
obliged me to change my route, that I might not be put betwixt
two fires, and, at the same time, be able to bring off Colonel War
ner, to whom I sent orders, if he found the enemy too strong, to re
treat to Rutland, where he would find me to cover him, that place
lying at nearly equal distances from both. Before my orders
reached him, his party was dispersed, after having for a considerable
time sustained a very warm engagement, in which the enemy suf
fered so much that they pursued him but a small distance. Our
loss I can not ascertain, but believe it does not exceed forty killed
and wounded. About two hundred of the party joined me at Rut
land and since, but great numbers of them are still missing, and I
suspect have gone down into New England by the way of Number
Four. After a very fatiguing march of seven days, in which the
troops suffered much from bad weather and want of provisions, I
joined General Schuyler the twelfth instant.
It was my original plan to retreat to this place, that I might be
428 The St. Clair Papers.
between General Burgoyne and the inhabitants, and that the militia
might have something round which to collect themselves ; it is now
effected, and the militia are coming in, so that I have the most
sanguine hopes that the progress of the enemy will be checked ; and
I may yet have the satisfaction to experience that, by abandoning a
post, I have eventually saved a State.
Perhaps I may be censured by those who are unacquainted with
the situation I was in for not sooner calling the militia to my assist
ance. I think I informed Congress that I could not do that for
want of provisions; and as soon as I got a supply I did call for
them, and was joined by near nine hundred the day before the
evacuation ; but they came from home so ill-provided that they
could not, nor would not, stay with me but a few days. The two
Massachusetts regiments of militia likewise, which composed part
of the garrison, gave mo notice that their time expired in two days,
and then they intended to go home. In vain did I beg of their
officers to exert every influence they had over them, and from their
subsequent behaviour, I am fully persuaded the officers were most
to blame. They kept with me, however, for twt day; ; but their
conduct was so licentious and disorderly, and their example begin
ning to affect the Continental troops, I was constrained to send them
off.
Inclosed you will find a copy of the council of war, in which is
contained the principles upon which the retreat was undertaken.
As I found all the general officers so fully of opinion that it should
be undertaken immediately, I forbore to mention to them many cir
cumstances which might have influenced them, and which I should
have laid before them had they been of different sentiments; for I
was, and still am, so firmly convinced of the necessity as well as the
propriety of it, that I believe I should have ventured upon it had
they been every one against it.
I have the utmost confidence in the candor of Congress, and
persuade myself that, notwithstanding the loss they have sustained,
when they have impartially considered I was posted, with little more
than two thousand men, in a place that required ten thousand to
defend it ; that these two thousand were ill-equipped and worse
armed (not above one bayonet in ten, an arm essential in the de
fence of lines) ; that with these two thousand I have made good a
retreat from under the nose of an army at least four times their
numbers, and have them now between the country and the enemy,
ready to act against them, my conduct will appear, at least, not de
serving of censure.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 429
P. S. —The enemy's force, from the best accounts, is three thous
and five hundred British, four thousand Brunswick and HesseHanau,
two hundred Indians and two hundred Canadians.
General St. Clair to General Washington.
Fort Edward, 11th July, 1777.
Sir:—Your Excellency's letters of the 12th and 13th instant,1 to
General Schuyler, have been by him communicated to me. Con
sidering that my letter to him of the 5th, the day before I left Tieonderoga,
was not delivered, and one I wrote to him whilst on the
march to this place has miscarried, and that your Excellency has
had no intimation of the motions and destination of our army, I
do not wonder that you should have some doubts about the propri
ety of my conduct, though it gives mo a very painful sensation to
know myself, but for a moment, the subject of a doubt with you.
I have, however, the strongest hopes, when your Excellency comes
to be fully informed of our situation and force, you will not con
demn me ; and, although I am not solicitous about the opinion of
the world (though very far from disregarding it), I wish to hold a
character with your Excellency something more than merely nega
tive. Returns of the strength of my garrison were regularly trans
mitted to General Schuyler, and by him, no doubt, to you. By
them, your Excellency will see that our force consisted of little more
than two thousand effectives. With these, I had lines and redoubts
of more than a league in extent to defend. Judge how poorly they
could have been defended by these numbers, had they been per
fected, which they were very far from being. In fact, they were
not defensible at all from the Ticonderoga side, unless the enemy
would have been so complaisant as to attack us in front of the old
French lines, and take no notice of the flanks of them, which were
both open. We had, last year, nine thousand men at these posts,
1 "It is astonishing, beyond expression, that you have heard nothing of St.
Clair and the army under him. I am totally at a loss to conceive what has
become of them. The whole affair is so mysterious that it even baffles con
jecture." — Washington to Schuyler, July lZth.
"Joined to the unfortunate reverse that has taken place in our affairs, I
am happy to hear that General St. Clair and his army are not in the hands
of the enemy. I really feared they had been prisoners."— Washington to
Schuyler, July 15th.
If the evacuation had not taken place, St. Clair and his troops would have
been prisoners—the thing Washington most feared.
480 The St. Clair Papers.
and they were found barely sufficient for the defense of the works.
The system was a little altered this season, but not so as to make a
smaller number answer, but to make a greater number necessary.
The enemy had nearly invested us, nothing being wanted to com
plete it but their occupying a narrow neck of land betwixt East
Creek and the lake, on the Mount Independence side. This, I had
information, would certainly take place in the course of the next
twenty-four hours, and had been left open so long only with a view
to intercept any cattle that we might bring in from the country,
and then our communication would have been effectually cut off.
We could have received neither supplies of provisions nor reinforce
ments ; for, depend upon it, Sir, the militia of this country can not
yet be brought on to raise a siege. But it may be asked why I had
not called in the militia to assist in the defense of the posts? For
this plain reason —I had not provision for them, and very little pros
pect of an effectual supply. When I first had notice of the ap
proach of the enemy, there w:as no more than ten days' provisions
in store for the troops then upon the ground. To have called in the
militia in that situation, would have been certain rvin. So soon as
a supply arrived, although but a scanty one, I did call for them,
and about nine hundred joined me the day before the resolution to
evacuate the posts was taken. They had come out in such a hurry,
and almost entirely without clothes, they did not propose to remain
but a very few days at the utmost. The term of Learned's and Wells'
regiments, which made part of the garrison, expired also in two
days, and the commanding officers had acquainted me that they
could not prevail upon the men to remain beyond the time they
were engaged for. Your Excellency knows, but too well, the dispo
sition of these people on such occasions. The batteries of the
enemy were ready to open in three different quarters, and our
whole camp, on the Ticonderoga side, was exposed to the fire of
each ; and, as soon as they did open, every man I had must have
been constantly on duty, as, from our weakness, of which the
enemy could not be ignorant, I had reason, every moment, to ex
pect an assault. Judge, Sir, how long we could have sustained it,
or whether our resistance must not have been a very feeble one in
deed, especially when you take into the account that a great num
ber were mere boys, and that not more than a tenth part were fur
nished with bayonets. Revolving these circumstances in my mind,
I was at no loss to determine what part I ought to take ; but I
thought it prudent to take the sense of the other general officers.
A copy of the council has been transmitted to your Excellency by
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 431
General Schuyler. They were unanimously of the opinion that the
posts ought to be evacuated immediately ; wisely, in my judgment,
considering that a retreat, even with the loss of our cannon and
stores, if it could he effected, would be of infinitely greater service
to the country, and bring less disgrace upon our arms than an army,
although a small one, taken prisoners, with their cannon and stores.
I was fully in sentiment with them, and believe I should have or
dered the retreat, if they had been of a contrary way of thinking.
But here, again, it may be asked why, when I found myself in the
situation I have described, I did not retreat sooner, when every
thing might have been saved. I have only to answer that, until
the enemy sat down before the place, I believed the small garrison
I had to be sufficient. The intelligence that Congress had received,
that no serious attempt in that quarter was intended, as it gained
credit with them, I never doubted, and was unwilling to be the oc
casion of drawing off any part of your army, as your operations
might thereby be rendered less vigorous ; and I knew, too, that you
could ill spare them. Besides, until the case became so urgent that
I had no alternative but the evacuation of my posts, or the loss of
the army, it did not lie with me to determine upon. The retreat
was begun a little before day, on the 6th instant, unperceived by
the enemy, after having embarked as much of the stores and pro
visions, and as many of the cannon as was possible in the course
of one very short night ; and our march would probably have been
unperceived for some time, if General Fermoy's house had not been
set on fire. How that happened, I know not. I had previously
given orders against burning any of the buildings, that our march
might be the longer concealed ; but it served to the enemy as a sig
nal of our leaving the place, and, in consequence, they were uponthe
Mount before our rear was clear of it, and fired a few times
upon it, but without effect.
Colonel Long,1 with his regiment and a detachment from the
other regiments, and the invalids with the hospital, were sent to
1Pierso Long, a shipping-merchant, of Portsmouth, N. H., where he was
horn, in 1739. He was a delegate to the Provincial Congress in 1775, and
Colonel of the First New Hampshire Regiment 1776. Ho performed the
part assigned him by General St. Clair upon the occasion of the evacuation
of Ticonderoga, faithfully, and repulsed the pursuing enemy successfully.
Ho was a delegate to Congress 1786-89; delegate to the State Constitutional
Convention in 1788, and was the first Collector of the port of Portsmouth,
appointed hy President Washington. Ho died while the incumbent of the
office, April 3, 1789.
432 The St. Clair Papers.
Skenesborough by water ; while I took the road to the same place,
through Castleton, with the body of the army. As the enemy
were at least four times my numbers, I had nothing for it but a
forced march, and I pressed it as much as possible, and reached
Castleton that night, thirty miles from Ticonderoga, having, on our
way, fallen in with and dispersed a party of the enemy, from whom
we took twenty head of cattle, three British prisoners, and five
Canadians.
The rear-guard, under Colonel Warner, which, with those that
had failed upon the march, amounted to a thousand, imprudently
halted six miles short of Castleton, and wasted so much time in the
morning that they were overtaken and surprised by a strong detach
ment from Ticonderoga, which had been sent up the East Bay,
which runs into the country very near the place where he was.
They sustained the attack with great bravery, but were finally
obliged to give way, with the loss of about fifty killed and wounded.
On the first of the firing, I sent orders to two regiments of militia,
who had left me the night before, and were lodged within two miles
of Colonel Warner's post, to move up to his assistance, which, had
they done, that party would have been cut off. But, instead of
that, they made all possible haste to rejoin me, and, at the same
instant, I received the account of the enemy's being in possession of
Skenesborough, and having taken and destroyed every thing that
had been sent there.
I was then constrained to change my route, both that I might
avoid being put between two fires, and that I might be able to bring
off Colonel Warner. I, therefore, sent him orders to retire to Rut
land, where he would find me to cover him. A considerable part
of his detachment joined me at that place, and he, with about
ninety more, two days afterwards, at Manchester. A great many
are still missing, though few, I believe, have fallen into the enemy's
hands, as they did not pursue Colonel Warner but a very small dis
tance, and, from all accounts, suffered much in the action. The
Ninth Regiment followed Colonel Long towards Fort Ann, and were
almost entirely cut off. I have dispatched officers to Bennington, and
Number Four to pick up the stragglers, who, I suppose, have taken
these routes to New England ; and, on the 12th instant, I joined
General Schuyler at this place, after a very fatiguing march. Thus,
Sir, I have laid before you, without the least reserve, every thing I
can recollect respecting Ticonderoga, and the retreat from thence.
Happy should I be if my conduct therein meets with your approba
tion; and I can, with the strictest truth, affirm I was actuated by
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 433
no motives but what sprang from a sincere regard for the public
welfare.
General St. Glair to John Jay.
Moses's Creek, July 2'Ah, 1777.
Sir:—Geueral Schuyler was good enough to read to me part of a
letter he received last night from you. I can not recollect that any
of my officers ever asked my reasons for leaving Ticonderoga ; but,
as I have found the measure much decried, I have often expressed
myself in this manner: " That as to myself I was perfectly easy;
I was conscious of the uprightness and propriety of my conduct,
and despised the vague censure of an uninformed populace ; " but
had no allusion to an order from General Schuyler for my justiiication,
because no such order existed.
The calumny thrown on General Schuyler, on account of that
matter, has given me great uneasiness. I assure you, Sir, there
never was any thing more cruel and unjust, for he knew nothing
of the matter until it was over, more than you did at Kingston. It
was done in consequence of a consultation with the other general
officers, without the possibility of General Schuyler's concurrence ;
and had the opinion of that council been contrary to what it was,
it would nevertheless have taken place, because I knew it to be im
possible to defend the post with our numbers.
In my letter to Congress from Fort Edward, in which I gave
them an account of the retreat, is this paragraph: "It was my
origina design to retreat to this place, that I might be betwixt
General Burgoyne and the inhabitants, and that militia might have
something in this quarter to collect to. It is now effected, and the
militia are coming in, so that I have the most sanguine hopes that
the progress of the enemy will be checked, and I may have the sat
isfaction to experience that, although I have lost a post, I have eventu
ally saved a State."
Whether my conjecture is right or not, is uncertain; but, had
our army been made prisoners, which it certainly would have been, the
State of New York would have been much more exposed at present.
I proposed to General Schuyler, on my arrival at Fort Edward,
to have sent a note to the printer to assure the people he had no
part in abandoning what they considered their strongholds. He
thought it was not so projier at that time, but it is no more than what
I owe to truth and to him to declare that he was totally unac
quainted with the matter; and I should be very glad that this let '26
434 The St. Clair Papers.
ter, or any part of it you may think proper to communicate, may
convince the unbelieving. Simple unbelief is easily and soon con
vinced, but, when malice or envy occasions it, it is needless to at
tempt conviction.
John Jay to General St. Clatr.
Kingston, 28th July, 1777.
Sir:—Your letter of the 25th of July, which does no less honor
to your candor than justice to the reputation of General Schuyler,
was very acceptable. Agreeably to what I apprehended to have been
your intention, I have sent it to the press, and flatter myself the
purposes for which it was written will be fully answered.
The evacuation of Ticonderoga was an event very unexpected, as
well as important, and has given occasion for much speculation and
discontent. How far it was necessary or prudent can only be de
termined by gentlemen acquainted with the forts, grounds about
them, and strength of both parties, and many other circumstances
essential to a proper discussion of that subject. I hope the expedi
ency of the measure may, contrary to general expectation, derive
proof from the event; and that the determination of the general
officers on that head may, on inquiry, be found undeserving the
censure it at present meets with.
General St. Clair to Governor James Bowdoin.
Camp at Moses's Creee, July 28, 1777.
(About Five Miles below Fort Edward.)
Sir:—I see, by the Boston paper, that you have given my letter1
to the public; though I am sorry to see, at the same time, some
very illiberal reflections upon it.2 It is often the lot of people in
1 Letter dated from Manchester, ninth of July, giving hurriedly nn no- count of the evacuation. It was printed in '• The fioalon Gazette and
Country Journal."
2 The editorial comments were such as al^e editors nre wont to make on
ex parte evidence when impressed that their journals are the palladium of
the liberties of the people. "Notwithstanding what has been said of the
small number of our troops there," said the Gazette, "wo have ground to
believe, upon authority of gentlemen of capacity and character, and who
had the best opportunity of knowing, that there were upwards of four
thousand effective men in the garrison." Having thus, upon anonymous
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 435
trust to meet with censure where they have really merited praise,
if events have not answered the public expectation. I do not pre
tend to say whether this was my case or not ; but it is very un
generous to take it for granted that it was otherwise. However, the
public, I hope, will be soon satisfied in a more eligible method than
discussing the matter through the channel of a newspaper, which is
seldom a proper one; in the present instance highly imprudent, as
it lays our weakness open to the enemy, and if the Generals are
blameless, destroys the public confidence in them, and may go a
great way towards having the same effect upon the army. I thank
God this has not yet happened with the army, who are so perfectly
sensible of the integrity and propriety of my conduct, that the field
and other officers have, almost to a man, (although they were not
consulted upon the evacuations), declared if I was censured for the
measures I had takeu, that they would quit the service. I knew
the genins of them too well to intrust them with a design, the suc
cess of which depended entirely upon the secrecy with which it was
executed. This may look like a reflection upon the officers; but
there is so much familiarity betwixt them and the soldiers, that there
is nothing comes to their knowledge but is very soon after in every
quarter of the camp.
The colonel who complained so bitterly of his marching two days
in the rear is Marshall, aud has sent his correspondent a parcel of
infamous falsehoods.1 The troops never wanted provisions. Beef
they had in plenty. We brought off with us some cattle that had
arrived the day before; and we took twenty from a party of the
enemy the first day's march. A man that can not live two or three
authority, disproved the statement of the commanding general, and con
victed the muster officers of false returns, the editor wants to know why (the
enemy being known upon the same undoubted authority to be less than six
thousand) a " pass, exceedingly ttrong bv nature, and ereatly fortified by
art, should have an army to defend it equal in number to the assailants?"
And judgment is at once proncuneed against the Generals. What matter
if the post, instead of being a strongly fortified pass, consisted of irregular
breastworks very extensive, and indefensible except by having fifteen
thousand men to man the lines; and that t e enemy were in possession of
heights overlooking these completely, were such facts to stand against the
"authority of gentlemen of capacity and character?"
1A correspondent of the Qazrttc, writing from Manchester, claimed that
he held a command at Ticonderoga; that he received no warning to leave,
and that he " marched in the rear of the army for two days and nights with
out victuals or drink, except brook water." These falsehoods were exposed
in a caustic communication to the Gnzetfr, by Colonel Wilkinson. The
reader will find it in full in hU Memoirs, Vol. I, p. 199.
436 The St. Clair Papers.
days on plenty of good beef is very unfit for a soldier. It, perhaps,
does nut become me to say it, but the retreat was made in as
orderly and soldier-like a manner as was possible with raw, undis
ciplined troops. As to the attack upon Colonel Warner, who com
manded the reafr-guard, he halted, without my knowledge, six miles
short of Castleton ; which was the place marked for the halt of the
whole army that night. At such a distance, it was impossible for
me to support him; but the moment the firing began I ordered
Bellows' and Alcott's regiments of militia, who had left me the
night before and halted two miles from Colonel Warner, to move up
to his assistance. Had they obeyed my orders, it is probable the
enemy might have been repulsed ; though we now know the party
that attacked him consisted of two thousand men, composed of the
grenadiers and light infantry of the army, commanded by General
Fraser. The inquiries about the arms of the troops I should think
General Heath could very well satisfy. He must know in what
situation he sent them off, and whether they were clothed or not.1
Public jealousy is a virtue ; but it may be earned to An extreme,
and then it becomes a vice. If it is not vicious, it is extremely uncandid,
to condemn a man upon mere assumption, when they have
neither proper information, nor, it may be, are capable of forming a
judgment upon military matters. However, I bear all the abuse
that is very plentifully poured forth upon me, with as much gang
froid as possible, happy in the consciousness of my own innocence,
and a full persuasion that my character and conduct will soon be
put in its true point of view, as I have demanded an inquiry both
from General Washington and Congress. I must own, however,
that I am hurt by the accusation of treachery. As to want of
spirit, no man in command that wanted spirit ever possessed the
confidence of his troops ; and in that respect I am bold to say, I
have always been fortunate enough to be both. beloved and respected.
I beg pardon for troubling you with so much about myself; but the
first painful sensation undeserved censure occasions is not yet quite
worn off; and I have given you the former detail, that you might
1 " I join the view in thinking there ought to bo an inquiry after the arms
and clothes you mention, for they really never reached Tieo'ideroga; though
your interrogations on that bead are improperly directed and maliciously
pointed.
" Believe me, air, if virtue or justice has existence, the man who stands
Condemned for retreating from Ticonderoga, will, ere long, be thanked for
the salvation of three thousand men, whe, instead of being in captivity, are
now opposing our enemy."—Cohmr.l James Wilkinson in reply to the lloston
Gazette.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 437
be able to make some answer to well-meaning people, who may be
glad to be truly informed. The numbers, however your people may
be imposed upon, will be found exactly as I stated them; as I have
been lucky enough to save not only the general returns, but those
of the individual regiments, under the signature of their respective
Colonels ; though I don't know whether I mentioned three regiments
of militia, making about nine hundred men, officers included, who
joined me the night before I left Ticonderoga, but who did not pro
pose to stay more than two or three days at the utmost; nor that
two militia regiments of your State, which composed part of my
garrison, were to leave me the day I retreated, their times being ex
pired, and they could not be prevailed on to stay any longer.
We are here tolerably posted, waiting the approach of the enemy,
though fiir inferior in numbers. It was found necessary to dismiss
one-half of the niilitia on account of the harvest ; and a great part
of the remaining half have followed them. Those from Connecti
cut are gone, to a man ; but in a day or two we shall be joined by
General Glover's brigade, when we shall be able to make some head,
if the enemy should come on in force, which I think they dare not
venture, as Colonel Warner has now a respectable body at Man
chester, which may fall either upon their rear or flank. The am
munition was, every ounce, sent off from Ticonderoga, and as mifch
of the provisions as we had boats for ; but a great part of the
ammunition fell into the hands of the enemy by the vessel on board"
of which it was unluckily running aground. Colonel Long deserves
all the praise he receives. He is an active, vigilant, brave officer.
I beg the favor that you will present my best compliments to
Mrs. Bowdoin.
Colonel Thomas Hartley to General St. Clair.
Camp Howell's Ferry, New Jersey, July 31, 1777.
Dear General:—Your friends here are very sorry you have lwen
so ill-supported in the Northern Department. Your garrison was
too small to maintain the important pass of Ticonderoga. A few
battalions of your Southern friends, who served with you the last
campaign, might have been of consequence. It is the practice of
the world to censure our misfortunes and point out defects, when
the censurer would not have acted so well had he been in the same
situation. I believe but few gentlemen in the army blame you,1
•It is not practicable to find room fur all of tlio messages of indorsement
438 The St. Clair Papers.
but the pen of the malignant and envious has been made use of
against you. Some of their performances I send you in a newspa
per. Were you present, mauy doubts could be cleared up. It is
cruel to asperse the character of such a gentleman, at such a dis
tance, unheard. So much noise has been made that you will doubt
less think it prudeut to have a public examination. As you have
some enemies, you can not be too careful in having any facts alleged
well attested, as you are conscious yourself of having acted for the
best. I hope you will not be uneasy. Should the army march to
ward Philadelphia, some of your friends will make a few queries.
We have, as yet, no certain intelligence of the place where the
fleet has sailed to, but suppose it to be southward. If they attempt
Philadelphia we shall be apt to finish the campaign with them
there. I make no doubt you will be able to stop the approach of
Burgoyne and his savages.
General Schuyler to General St. CLArn.
Albany, August iMh, 1777.
Dear Sir:—The situation of affairs in the western quarter will
detain me 1 at least until to-morrow. Fort Schuyler [Stanwix] is in
vested, and has been for some days.
I can not learn that a man is moved from the Massachusetts or
Connecticut to our assistance,2 although they are preparing to come.
Mmi good-will sent to St. Clair at this time by the best soldiers of the differ
ent armies. The following, however, under dute of July 23, from the
"General Hospital," deserves a place:
Dear Sir:—I received yours of the 20th inst. I am very happy you made
your eseap_ in time from Ticonderoga, as I am well assured from the small
number cl tr ops you had under your command you must have fallen a
victim t .i Briti>h barbarity. Let the censorious rabble talk as they please,
lam happy you don't give yourself any uneasiness about them. You have
your enemies, but you have friends innumerable; friends that at any lime
would willingly share your fate. Your sincere friend.
S.vmi.. McKbnzie."
1 During the absence of General Schuyler, General St. Clair was in com
mand of the army, which then lay at Stillwater. General Arnold had been
dispatched to the relief of Fort Stanwix, which was besieged by St Leger.
2In the official correspondence of Artemas Ward and other New Kn in
landers, after the evaluation of Ticonderoga, mention is made of reinforcemets
for the army ready to march, but alter the lapse of a month surprise
is expressed that they had not yet appeared.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 439
General Lincoln lay at Bennington last night, and will, probably,
join us to-morrow; a few militia from below are coming up.
I have ordered up more bateaux to the forts, to assist in bringing
down the stores that are there.
If the enemy are not more numerous than the deserters say, we
should repulse them if joined by some more militia. Adieu.
General St. Clair to John Hancock.
Philadelphia, August 2oth, 1777.
Sir:—Your letter of the 5th, inclosing a resolve of Congress of
the 30th of Juiy,1 I had the honor to receive at Stillwater, and in
consequence thereof repaired to headquarters.
However disagreeable it was to be obliged to leave the army at
so critical a time, it gave me pleasure that Congress had determined
to inquire into my conduct.2 My character will thereby be placed
in its true light, and a stop put, I hope, to that tide of popular
abuse that has run high upon me, and been kept up by very disin
genuous and base means.
I beg, sir, that you will make my request to Congress that the in
quiry be ordered immediately 3—you must be sensible that, until it
is over, my situation is a very awkward one.
1 lirsolrcd, Tliat Major General St. Clair, whe commanded at Ticonderoga
and Mount Independence, be, and he is hereby directed forthwith to repair
to headquarters.—Journals of Cungmt.
General Washington to General Putnam, Oth August, 1777:
"Congress have theught proper to call down General Schuyler and Gen
eral St. Clair, to give an account of the causes of our misfortunes to the
northward, and General Gates goes up to talie the command."
2General Washington to President of Congress, Oth August, 1777:
"I perceive by the resolves for recalling Generals Schuyler and St. Clair,
that they are directed to repair to headquarters. I also And that a com
mittee had been resolved on, to digest a mode for inquiring into the reasons
for evacuating Ticonderoga and Mount Independence, and into the conduct
of the general officers in the Northern Department at the time of the evacu
ation. As these gentlemen have received the letter upon this subject by
this time and will probably be down in the course of a few days, I shall be
glad to be informed what I am to do with them when they arrive. I may
be then at a great distance from this, and. in such case, should be ut a loss
what to ray, or how to conduct myself respecting them, witheut receiving
some directions, which I request to be favored with by the earliest oppor
tunity."
3 That was just what certain members of the Hoard of AVar were deter-
440 The St. Clair Papers.
Colonel Wilkinson to General St. Clair.
Headquarters, Van Schaick's Island, September 1th, 1777.
My Dear Sir:—Your agreeable and very satisfactory favor of the
26th July, has just reached me. I am not at all astonished at the
long faces made you, but I very much wonder how they are able to
make any face; for I think the man who can sustain the eye of the
person he has much injured, is devoid of both sensibility and candor,
and I much fear our councils are not exempt from such characters,
else not one moment's hesitation could be made as to the mode of
inquiring into your conduct.
I am distiessed and enraged to observe in the public prints, which
you must have seen, a letter from General Schuyler to the Council
of this State, wrote at Fort Edward previous to our joining him, in
which he reprehends the evacuation of Ticonderoga, and asserts
that the garrison was five thousand strong.1 What a strange du
plicity of heart does he manifest. He yesterday informed me,
" that he had written to Mr. Duane, desiring him to publixh thc game-,
that you ought not to be blamed for not leaving Ticonderoga earlier,
but he had not left that in your power; and so far was he from
condemning your conduct, that he heartily applauded it, and should,
had he lieen in your situation, have pursued the same steps which
you did." This palpable contradiction to his letter did he utter to
me. Make what use of it you can, and be assured I shall be ever
willing and ready to support it. I wonder public inquiries had not
been made into preceding public misfortunes—such as the loss of
Fort Washington, a division being surprised and losing three pieces
of artillery, etc. However, God's will be done. I trust the period
is not very distant when justice will be done us, and many will be
reduced to their former nothingness.
Affairs in this quarter wear the most favorable aspect. The Benmined
should not be done. It was their purpose to drive both Generals St.
Clair und Schuyler out of service. The hitter beenme disgusted, Hnd ex
changed the army for Congress. St. Clnir, however, was kept busy in the
field by General Washington, and had the sat'efaction of serving his coun
try despite the malcontents. The inquiry was not granted until compelled
by a majority of Congress under the leadership of Gouverneur Morris. For
particulars, see pp. '.i'2 to %.
1Schuyler's attention was called to this misrepresentation by General
Washington, under date of July 10, 1777. See Writings of Washington,
Vol. IV, p. 493.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 441
nington success1 has relaxed Mr. Burgoyne's ardor, and has left him
less than thirty Indians, the rest having returned home. Since that
event he has remained stock still, with his advance on the heights op
posite Saratoga, and his main body at Fort Miller. His army, after a
moderate deduction for his losses and war posts, can not exceed five
thousand five hundred men. General Lincoln is at Manchester, to
co-operate with this army, with a body of five thousand men, which
rapidly increases. I doubt whether this motion will not make an
alteration in Mr. Burgoyne's front ; however, if this should fail, I
am sensible we shall find no little efficacy in advancing on the 10th
inst. from this quarter with upward of seven thousand combatants
eager for action. As they tell v*, seriously, that the General is de
termined to advance at this period and give the enemy battle as soon
as he can do it on equal ground, the affair must be soon settled ; and
I really think our numbers and disposition will give us a vast ad
vantage, nay, insure victory. God alone knows when General
Schuyler will come down to you.2 . . .
General Gates Iwgs to be remembered to you, and wishes you
here.; so does every officer who has had the honor to serve under
you, except the famous Marshall, whom I have tried, and now let
you know, as I have the army and his country, that he is not only
a scoundrel, but an infamous poltroon.
The shocking, degeneracy of mankind, and the poor prospect I
have of ever being united with the amiable girl3 in whom my whole
soul delights, disgusts me with existence, and will justify me, on
the first honorable occasion, in withdrawing from the public service,
and seeking that retirement more conducive to real happiness. May
the Almighty bless you, my dear friend.
P. S. —Pray acknowledge the receipt of this. General Gates
1 For an account of this action, sec p. 84.
2General Schuyler, Brigadier-Generals Poor, Patterson, and Fermoy, had
been ordered by Congress, August 1st, to repair to headquarters. On the
4th August, by direction of Congress, General Washington had directed
General Gates to assume command of the Northern Department. The or
der of the 1st, so far as it directed the brigadier-generals to repair to head
quarters, was afterward rescinded on account of protest of General "Wash
ington.
2After the capture of Burgoyno, when Wilkinson was dispatched by Gen
eral Gates to apprise Congress of that happy event, he called on his amiable
girl en route, for which Samuel Adams moved that he be voted a pair of
spurs. It is presumed that Wilkinson took a less melancholy view of the
world thenceforth.
f
442 The St. Clair ropers.
has lately received letters from Generals Burgoyne and Fraser re
specting the prisoners made at Bennington. Burgoyne, in addition,
complains of the inhumanity of our troops to his Royal Provincials,
and says,, "if you mean to avoid the horrors of retaliation, you
must severely reprehend and strictly prohibit such conduct in fu
ture," or of his vengeance be assured.
Burgoyne's complaint is ridiculous ; his threat contemned.
Colonel Wilkinson to General St. Clair.
Camp Bemis's Heights, Septeatber 21irf, 1777.
My Dear General:—On the 10th inst.. General Burgoyne ad
vanced from Saratoga to Sword's house, and encamped on the
heights west of the river; on the 17th and 18th, he was engaged in
repairing the bridges in his front.
Early on the 19th, he struck his camp and advanced toward our
left. Morgan's rifle regiment, and a corps of two hundred and
eighty of Major Dearborn's light infantry, were immediately de
tached to discover their motions and harass their advance. About
a mile from camp, and at half after twelve, they fell in with a picket
of the enemy, which they immediately drove, but, the enemy being
reinforced, after a sharp fire they were in turn obliged to retire.
This skirmish drew the main body of the enemy and Poor's brigade
from our camp to support the action, which, with a short cessation,
was renewed with redoubled energy and violence, and continued in
cessant till the end of the day, when our people retired to camp,
and the enemy a small distance in rear of the field. Reinforcements
which were occasionally detached amounted in all to nine regiments,
two of them militia ; though Morgan's, Scammel's, Cilley's, and
Hale's, of General Poor's brigade, who all behaved inimitably, sus
tained the principal fire. We are indisputably assured that Bur
goyne, who commanded in person, was wounded in the left shoul
der; 1 that the 62d regiment was cut to pieces, and that the enemv
suffered extremely in every quarter where they were engaged. I
inclose you a return of our loss and made prisoners during the ac
tion [amounting to three hundred and twenty-one killed, wounded,
and missing]. The field was covered by a deep wood on all sides.
It was an excellent trap, and our men were quick to take advantage
of it.
1This was an error, it was Captain Green, aid-de-camp to General Phil
lips, who was wounded.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 443
General Arnold was not out of camp during the whole action. Pray,
my dear General, read the inclosed, and let the amiable object
know, the first opportunity, what was accomplished by our troops.
General Gates despises a certain pompous little fellow1 as much as
you can, and tells me, confidentially, that nothing could give him
so much satisfaction as your presence here, though I find his sup
porters are, unfortunately, your enemies ; hence his silence. As Mr.
Burgoyue has no alternative, having destroyed the bridges in his
rear, and as the armies are within two miles of each other, he must
shortly commence action. We have at this time about six thous
and combatants, and the enemy can bring to action about an equal
number. I think without some military trick the day will be our
own, as that enthusiasm which reigned at Ticonderoga pervades all
the eastern troops, and the late severe engagement, instead of damp
ing their spirits, has made them impatient for action.
We are just this moment informed of the success of a descent on
Lake George by a detachment from a body of militia under Gen
eral Lincoln, which was in the rear of Mr. Burgoyne. It was com
manded by the famous Colonel Brown. He very dashingly carried
the post at the landing and at the saw-mills, took two captains, nine
subordinates, and two hundred and ninety-three privates, of the
53d British regiment, and released a hundred and nine prisoners.
He had in possession the French lines, and had sent a flag to de
mand the surrender of the fort, but had no artillery to enforce his
demand. He has taken two hundred bateaux, twenty odd gun
boats, some armed vessels, etc. A letter you wrote me by a Mr.
Hale has by accident been destroyed. I am now more persuaded
than ever that the evacuation of Ticonderoga has been the salva
tion of this Province, perhaps country. I assure you that great
credit is given you, and the B-itish and Burgoyne were greatly dis
appointed by the move. God bless you.
Colonel Wilkinson to General St. Cl.vir.
Camp Bemis's Heights, October 1th, 1777.
My Dear General:—General Schuyler, by letter, informed me
that your favor to me by a Mr. Hale, was, for fear of it falling into
the hands of a party of Tories, whom he met at Hackensack,
destroyed.
1General Arnold.
444 The St. Clair Papers.
Permit me to congratulate you on the loss of Philadelphia, as an
event fraught with the greatest good consequences, since many vil
lains, who otherwise would have enjoyed the fruits of our virtuous
efforts, will by this test be reduced to the necessity of explaining
their despicable principles, which will (as I wish a total expulsion
of such dastardly unfeeling parricides), I trust, be an unsunnountable
bar to their future existence in this country.
Whilst General Howe reigns trinmphant in an empty city, Gen
eral Burgoyne, without resources, aud with barely twelve days pro
visions (at this time) is stopped short in his career, and finds himself
unable to proceed, and incapable of retreating without disgrace and
ruin. Since the action of the 19th ultimo, he has remained strongly
posted, and has labored incessantly on the fortification of his camp,
but the exigency of his circumstances must shortly produce some
thing decisive. The injured Northern Army will then gcnerau.dy fly
to the support of the sinking armies.
An unprecedented amount of desertion prevades General Burgoyue'sarmy;
notwithstanding bribes, threats, aud every military
precaution is adopted, they come over daily. We, yesterday, re
ceived fourteen, who all agree in the same tale respecting provisions
and the defection of the troops. Their flour is entirely Canadian,
and miserably manufactured, of which they uow receive half a
pound per day.
My love to Colonel .Stewart.
P. S. —Generals Gates aud Arnold have differed beyond recon
ciliation. As I, too, have a quarrel with the little man, I will not
expose his conduct.
The celebrated General Stark, the Bennington hero, by way of
gilding his reputation and finishing his character, left the camp at
a time when we hourly expected an engagement, aud on the day be
fore the action.
Colonel Baldwin to General St. Clair.
Camp Saratoga, October 17, 1777.
Dear General:—Give me leave to congratulate you on the im
portant conquest over General Burgoyne and his army. The capit
ulation and other particulars you will have, by the time this reaches
you, by an abler hand. A more complete victory you could not
wish for, and I believe, by this time, the people in general have
altered their sentiments with respect to the evacuation of Tieouderoga.
The officers, and all who I now hear speak about it, say
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 445
that a better plan could not have been adopted, and nothing but
your leaving that place could have given us the success. Excuse
haste.
General St. Clair to General Gates.
Camp at White Marsh, November 2\st, 1777.
Dear General : —Though my congratulations on your signal suc
cess come rather late, they arc not the less sincere. Sickness in my
family had called me away from the army, and I was absent when
the news of GeneraltBurgoyne's surrender arrived, an event glorious
to you, and that must be attended with the most happy consequences
to America, and it affords me the greatest pleasure, as you were the
happy instrument in bringing it to pass. This, my dear General, is
not the language of compliment, but of the heart. I am not used
to make professions, but I ever shall be interested in your good or
bad fortune, as I have not forgotten, nor ever shall forget, the friend
ship I have received at your hands.
The battle of Gcrmautown happened in my absence. I can give
you little account of it. There was strange mismanagement, and it
has produced infinite courts-martial, and as we have been inactive
ever since, seems to have impressed us with a sense of the superiority
of the British troops ; that gives me much concern. It is certain
our discipline and our numbers, too, are inferior to theirs, but when
your victorious troops arrive they will make our scale preponderate ;
but what can delay them so? Morgan has been arrived above a
fortnight.
The fort on Mud Island was evacuated on the 16th instant, at
midnight (one of the enemy's ships lying within pistol shot of it at
the time), after having sustained a siege of near seven weeks. It is
a very singular event that such a thing, the veriest bicoque that ever
was erected should have retarded the operations of an army of twelve
or fourteen thousand men and a great fleet so long. Colonel Smith
(a son of your friend, Mr. Smith, of Baltimore), has acquired im
mortal honor in defense of it. The cheveahx-de-frize are not yet
removed, nor will they be, so long as we maintain the Jersey shore,
but that I fear will not long be the case, as the troops from New
York are landed at Billingsport, and a large detachment from Phil
adelphia, under the command of Lord Cornwallis, has joined them ;
Greene, however, with his division, has marched to oppose them,
and he has, likewise, Varnum's brigade.
My affair is still in the same situation as when I last wrote you.
446 The St. Clair Papers.
I am firmly persuaded it is the intention of Congress to avoid bring
ing it to trial as long as possible, in hopes that the matter will die
away of itself and be forgotten; that, however, is not my intention.
I have been pretty constant in my applications for justice to myself,
and to my country, and shall continue them until I prevail or they
throw off the mask. It is melancholy that a body lately so august,
so truly venerable, should, in so short a time, be so visibly altered.
If the degeneracy continues (and when intriguing and cabal take* root
in public assemblies it generally continues and increases), I can not
tell what may be the consequences, nor do I like to imagine them;
but this is certain, never since this great contest began had we more
need of upright, uncorrupted, wise and disinterested counsels nnd
counselors, for we are arrived at the crisis, or very near it. This
train of thought does not arise altogether from what has happened
to myself, but from a retrospect of the causes that have brought us
to a situation, in which we can with great difficulty get either for
ward or backward.
This moment I have a letter from the President, covering the
following very extraordinary resolve :
" Whereas, tlie committee appointed to inquire into the causes of the
loss of Ticonderoga and Fort Independence havi not yet been able to
collect materials ami make their report: Resolved, tliat Major-General
SL Clair be at liberty to attend to his private affairs until he shall have
notice to attend hea ljuirters, in order to an inquiry into his conduct."
Judge, now, sir, what I ought to think of them, for I made no
such application as this would indicate, or whether the suspicion I
threw out above is not but too well founded. If they had candor
or common honesty, they would have owned that, after five months
spent in searching for an accusation, they had been unable to rind
one—one, at least, that they dared to own ; and, instead of com
manding me to retire from the army, which is the English of the
resolve, with all the ignominy upon my head that they had unjustly
endeavored to fix there, could have acknowledged their error, and
done what was in their power to remove it; but many of them are
incapable of a generous sentiment or action in private life; arA a pub
hc, station, by making men more acquainted with the views and frail
ties nf others, confirms an I increases their own; a trial, however, they
shall give me ; be the event what it will, they can not rob me of
that heartfelt satisfaction which is the companion and reward of
virtuous actions.1
1 Kor hn account of the cowardly nnd unjust course of Congress, or the
Boar.l of War, in the application of St. Cluir and Schuyler for a bearing,
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 447
I shall leave the camp to-morrow, but shall not cease to pray to
see pp. 92 to 0-3. The cause of virtue was vindicated in spite of them and
the adverse faction. 'Jen months alter the evacuation of Ticonderoga,
Washington, having become indignant at the treatment, wrote to the Presi
dent of Congress that the course of that body was looked upon as "cruel
and oppressive."
At last, alter fifteen months of effort to find seme way out of the dilemma
in which it was placed, a committee was appointed to formulate charges
based upon the testimony obtained by the committee, at the head of which
was John Adams. Only one witness hail been found, and be was a disrepu
table hanger-on of the commissary department, named Jesse Leavenworth.
Not an officer or a soldier to aid the prosecution. Leavenworth assured the
committee that there were over 5,000 troops in garrison, well armed; plenty
of provisions, but there was indifference and neglect. "When brought be
fore the court, he swore directly to the contrary on the most important
points.
THE COUUT-.MAnTIAL.
Majrr-General Lincoln, President.
Member?.
Brigadier-General Nixon, Colonel Putnam,
Brigadier-General Clinton, Colonel M. Gist,
Brigadier-General Wayne, Colonel Russel,
Brigadier-General Muhlenburgb Colonel Grayson,
Colonel Willis, Colonel Stew art,
Colonel Greaton, Colonel Meigs.
John Laurance, Jmljc At/eocatc.
Court met at White Plains, August 23, 1778.
The judge advocate read the charges and specifications which were to
substantiate the first, viz: Neglect of duty, cowardice, and treachery, in
abandoning the posts. He called his witness, Jesse Leavenworth, on each
charge, and offered, in addition, the correspondence between St. Clair and
Schuyler and Jay, above given.
The prosecution having been concluded, General St. Clair began his de
fense by calling a large number of the officers who bad been at the fort",
and presented the correspondence in a new and striking light. Of the tes
timony of the prominent witnesses, we have room only for a few brief extracts.
Major-General Gates being sworn, snvs:
Some time in April, in the year 1777, I made a requisition from Congress
for the defense of the Northern Department, and estimated the troops nec
essary for that service as follows: Two major-generals; six brigadiers ; one
battalion of artillery, 600; twenty-flve battalions of infantry, 12,.i,U0; two
companies of rangers, 10 i; staff, bateaux men, etc., 400; total, 13,600. At
that time I did not expect General Ilurgoyne would have landed between
ten and eleven thousand men. If I bud, i should have required more men
for the defense of that department.
448 The St. Clair Papers.
God to avert those calamities to my country that may ever make
my feeble assistance necessary.
General St. Clair's Question. During the time I had the henor of serving
under you, did you ever discover in me cowurdice, treachery, or incapacity,
as 11 general officer?
A. Fiommylong acquaintance with you as an officer, and particularly
your usefulness to me as n brigadier-general in the campaign of 1 7 7 • "• , it ex
cites my astonishment Unit there should be such charges as cowardice,
treachery, or incapacity exhibited against you. From my knowledge of you,
both a- an officer and a gentleman, I have the highest opinion of your cour
age, honor, capacity, and fidelity.
Q. What proportion of these troops ought to be at Ticonderoga and
Mount Independence?
A. At P'ort Schuyler, 500; the intermediate posts between Albany and
Fort Schuyler, inclusive, 000; the posts between Albany and Fort George,
inclusive, 6OO; at Fort Ann and Skoiicsburongh, 300; the remainder at Ti
conderoga and its dependencies. Besides these, I expected aid from the mi
litia of the country, having unlimited powers from Congress for that pur
pose.
Q. (By Court). What number of men would you have thought necessary
had you been fully possessed of the force of General Burgoyno?
A. Three to two.
Colonel Koseiuszko, sworn:
General St. Clair's Question. Supposing Ticonderoga to have been aban
doned, and the enemy to have been in possession of it, would it have been
possiblo to have maintained the works on t he point of Mount Independence
that were made for the command of the lake and the defense of the bridge ?
A. No, as the ground overlooked them about fifty feet.
General St. Clair's Question. Do you recollect where the place from which
we got our water was, on Mount Independence side, and the situation of it?
A. On tho west side of Mount Independence, on the low ground, near the
lake.
General St. Clair's Question. Supposing the enemy had passed some of
their vessels into South liny, would it not have been wholly in their power
to have cut us off from the water?
A. The spring would have been exposed to the fire of the enemy.
General St. Clair s Qust'on. Do you recollect the distance from the lake
to East Creek, beyond the south end of Mount Independence ?
A. About one-half a mile or three-quarters.
General St. Clair's Question. "Would it not have been in the enemy's power
to have annoyed, from the vessels from South Hay, any troops that might
have been marching across the isthmus to the relief of Mount Independ
ence ?
A. It would havo been in the enemy's power to have done it, on account
of the passage being narrow, a thick wood, and the possession of the lake.
General St. Clair's Question. Do you recollect whether any works were
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. -149
I had a great deal more to say, but this resolve has deranged all
my ideas. Adieu, my dear general.
begun to improvo the redoubt on the high ground, on the point of Mount
Independence ?
A. Yes; by your order I marked out the lines, and prepared the fascines,
-which was after General Schuyler left Ticonderoga.
General St. Clair's Question. In what condition was the fort upon Mount
Independence?
A. It was a picketed fort, only for small arms. Picketed all around;
some good and some bad.
General St. Clair's Question. How many men could tlie fort contain, with
convenience, for the defense of it?
A. About 1,000 men.
General St. Clair's Question. What batteries had the enemy erected
against Ticonderoga at the time or before the evacuation took place?
A. One battery was erected against the Jersey redoubt, on the opposite
side of the lake, about half a mile distant, and on higher ground. They
had made some works where they had an encampment, against the French
lines, about half a mile or three-quarters distant The enemy had also
taken possession of Mount Hope, a retrenched camp, which had been occu
pied by us the campaign before, by which the communication with Lake
George was cut off. They had taken possession of the mill, burnt the
block-house, and passed on the other side of the creek, when they took pos
session of a hill which commanded Ticonderoga and all Mount Independ
ence, and had begun a firing on the sloop that was stationed for the defense
of the passage from Lake George. They had also begun some works on a
point on the east side of the lake, opposite to the bridge.
General St. Clair's Question. Do you recollect Colonel May's having told
me, after I had spoken to the militia at Castletown, that the men would
stay, but the officers would not ?
A. I do not recollect Colonel May's having told you of it, but I met some
of the militia on the retreat, and having expressed my surprise at their not
staying to fight for their country, they answered, they were willing to stay,
but their officers would not.
Brigadier-General Poor sworn and examined at groat length as to the de
tails of the management of affairs at the forts, and after the evacuation.
This only need claim our attention, although all is important.
General St. Clair's Question. Was our forco in any degree adequate to the
defenso of the places?
A. No; I think the places could not have been maintained unless with at
least ten thousand good troops, and we ought to have had possession of two
hills without the French lines, as also the one on the other side of the lake,
known by the name of Mount Defiance.
General Schuyler, being duly sworn :
General St. Clair s Question. What troops had you estimated for the de
fense of the garrisons of Ticonderoga and Mount Independence?
A. Ten thousand continental troops. I do not know that I mentioned in 29
450 The St. Clair tape,*.
P. S.—I am extremely happy at Wilkinson's promotion,1 and
my letter to General Washington and to Congress that they should be con
tinental troops, but I intended them to have been continental troops.
General St. Clair's Question. Do you think the posts tenable with the force
I had?
In answer to this question, General Schuyler produced an extract from a
copy of a letter to Congress, dated the 8th of June, 1777, which he says was
sent by express to Congress, and was received by them about the 13th of
June, but he did not receive any answer to the letter till late in July. The
letter put Congress in possession of the weakness of the posts, the paucity
of the garrisons, and the want of clothing and provisions. These facts are
detailed in the letters above given.
General Schuyler says further, in answer to the question, that when ho
mentioned in the letter to Congress that between two and three thousand
men were sufficient to have maintained Mount Independence, he conceived
the post, about which orders had been given the beginning of February to
Colonel Baldwin, was far advanced; that the obstruction in the lake was
completed; that there were carriages provided for the cannon; that lines
were completed, and not by one-hall so extensive as he found them.
General St. Clair's Question. Did you ever give me any orders for evacu
ating these garrisons?
A. No. The reason why I did not give you any orders for evacuating
these gurrisons was because I had wrote this letter to Congress, and they did
not give me any orders about it; and as the Continent conceived them of
great importance and very strong, I did not think myself at liberty to give
any orders for an evacuation of them.
General St. Clair's Question. Was the defective state in which you found
Ticonderoga and Mount Independence owing to any negligence in me, or
disregard to the orders 1 received from you?
A. It could not be owing to any negligence in you, or disregard to the
orders you received from me, as you had arrived there but a few days before;
nor was it owing to the negligence of any officer whe had commanded there
in the winter or spring before; nor to the commanding officer of the artil
lery or the engineer. I conceive it to be owing to a want of men and a
want of materials.
General St. Clair's Question. Do you know of any steps taken by the
Eastern States to reinforce these posts, after their investure?
A. Immediately on my return from Ticonderoga, I wrote to the Eastern
States to hasten on the remainder of the continental troops. Some troops
came up in consequence of my application, but did not reach Albany till
some time after the evacuation of Ticonderoga. Upon receiving the first
letter from you after I returned from Ticonderoga, I applied to the Eastern
States, and to this, for reinforcements of militia. The militia from Massa
chusetts arrived at Fort Edward, I believe, between the 4th and 7th of July.
A few from Connecticut did not join us until towards the latter end of July.
These from this State got up much about the same time that the Massacliu1
See Note 1, page 463.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 451
thank you very heartily for procuring it. He has great merit, and
setts did. The Massachusetts militia were up as soon at Fort Edward, and
those from this State, as I could reasonably expect them to be. Connecticut,
as I was informed by Governor Trumbull, had a call for militia from Gen
eral Washington to go to the Highlands, or Peeks-Kill. That was the reason
that the militia did not join us sooner.
General St. Clair's Question. Did the force you had collected, supposing
the garrison to have held out, put you in a situation to have raised the
seige?
A. I believe that, with all the troops you brought with you, with the rein
forcements with General Nixon, and including all the militia, I had not at
Fort Edward, about the 20th of July, more than five theusand men. If the
garrison had remained, I should have had no more than three thousand
militia, before I was joined by General Nixon, to have marched to its relief,
which number I conceive very inadequate to have raised the seige. General
Nixon, I believe, arrived about the 12th or 13th of July; but if I had had a
force which I might think was sufficient, yet sheuld not have been able to
have raised the seige for want of provision, there being scarcely any pro
vision of the meat kind in the department; flour was plenty. Nor was there
any stock of provisions of the meat kind laid in —not even a sufficiency of
salted meat to have furnished the scouts with. We had not lead in the de
partment sufficient for an army anything like to have raised the seige with.
At Fort Edward, on the 7th of July, we were obliged to strip the men that
were there of every cartridge they had to send them to Fort Ann, and were
left without any lead for some days, excepting a mere trifle I got from Al
bany, a very small quantity brought up by the militia, and by stripping the
windows.
General St. Clair's Question. Did I not, when it was determined in the
council of officers that was held the 20th of June, 1777, respecting the hold
ing of Mount Independence and evacuating Ticonderoga, express my
opinion that it would be impossible to hold that post, when the other side
of the lake should bo abandoned?
A. I remember perfectly Well you did.
Extracts from the Speech ot Gexehal St. Clair,
General St. Clair began by expressing his gratification that at last his con
duct was to be inquired into before " a proper judicatory, and that, after so
long a delay and so injurious a discrimination, public justice will be done
upon a full, an impartial, and dispassionate examination, and that it will be
passed upon by men equal to the task of investigating truth, however art
fully concealed, and determining upon the intrinsic merit of military actions,
stripped of the glare that is sometimes thrown upon them by success, or tho
false lights in which they are often placed by adverse consequences."
"The first observation that naturally offers is, that the charges which have
been exhibited to this Court have all been founded upon the ex parte affi
davit of a Mr. Leavenworth, which (in most instances) he has contradicted
in open court, and consequently is entitled to no degree of credit, and upon
my own letters to Congress and to General Schuyler, the officer whe com-
452 The St. Clair Papers.
what is, in my opinion, more valuable, he has a warm, honest heart. I
have known many an arrant knave with considerable abilities.
manded in chief ir. the Northern department. It is singular, however, that
charges of so high a nature against an officer of my rank should be at
tempted to be supported (for supported I trust they are not) by no other
living witness than Mr. Leavenworth, a private man! a follower of the
army! in some of the lowest and vilest occupations! who, if be had had
capacity to judge, could not possibly have had proper information; that not
an officer of any rank whatsoever has been called upon ; and yet, had
treachery, had neglect of duty, been committed—had I been inattentive to
the progress of the enemy—had the posts in my charge been shamefully
abandoned—or had I been guilty of cowardice—they could not have escaped
their notice altogether; nay, it was by them only they could probably have
been discovered. But this, by-the-by. Previous to any remarks upon, or
application of the testimony, I beg leave to inform the Court that, before I
left Philadelphia to take upon me the command of Ticonderoga, Qongress
had received information, which they credited, that the principal part of the
enemy's troops in Canada were ordered round by St. Lawrence to join Gen
eral Howe; that no serious attempt would be made upon Ticonderoga; at
most, it would be a diversion only. This was communicated to me by Mr.
Hancock, then President, and I have his authority to mention it to this
Court. This circumstance will serve as a key to many of my letters, and
will account for my doubts about some intelligence 1 received after my ar
rival at Ticonderoga. And it appears, from General Poor's testimony, that
Gei*eral Gates had likewise, from them, received the same account."
Charge—Neglect of Duty : In not having evacuated the posts upon receipt
of information from two men from Canada (supposed to be spies), and thus
have saved the artillery and stores; and in not keeping out reconnoitcring
parties in force.
'-I suspect, sir, the committee who formed these charges had no idea of
the nature of a subordinate command. They would otherwise have known
that I had no power to form or execute any such resolution, and that my
justification for evacuating the posts at all must depend upon the necessity
of the case. 1 did what my duty required me—I gave the earliest notice to
the commanding officer of the department, and stood ready to execute his
commands. But I am persuaded that, had it been in my power to have
taken my final resolution then, and upon the intelligence I had received. I
had abandoned the posts, although every thing had been saved which has
since been lost, the charges of treachery and cowardice would have been
very much louder, and pressed home more strongly, and with more violence,
if possible, than in the present case. I should have heard that no decisivo
operation sheuld be founded on the vague report of prisoners or deserters,
often ignorant, almost always ill-informed; but that to abandon a post on the
information of persons I suspected to be, and actually were, the enemy's
spies, or from the view of an encampment upwards of forty miles off, and
that only seen across a lake six or eight miles broad, could proceed from no
other than one of those sources, or from perfect stupidity; and this Court,
from whem I expect a very different decision, would have joined m that
Correspondence, Addresses, Me. 453
Colonel Long to General St. Clair.
Portsmouth, New England, November 25, 1777.
Much Respected and Dear Sir:—My not having the pleasure of
opinion, and condemned me to the punishment I had justly merited. Hut,
besides all this, if the council of war was to guide, it was out of my
power to take any such measure; for the resolution of the council is that
both Ticonderoga and Mount Independence are to be held as long as they
can be. consistent with the safety of the troops and stores. When the salety
of the troops and stores became doubtful, Ticonderoga, not Mount Inde
pendence, was to he evacuated.
"Had not the committee been totally ignorant of the nature of the coun
try in which these parties were to act—had they given any attention to the
returns of my army, which were before them, or credit to iny letters to
General Schuyler, of which they had the perusal—this article would never
have made its appearance. Had it ever occurred to them that the enemy
proceeded by water, and that the only debarkation we hear of was at liilliland's
Creek, forty miles and upwards from Ticonderoga, and that they pro
ceeded from thence by water again, we should not have heard this story of
reconnoitering parties, of which I am morally certain they themselves had
no determinate idea. My whole army would not have found one party
such as they seem to think ought to have been sent out frequently. 1 have
proven that small parties were sent out, not only frequently, hut constantly ;
and although they were but small parties, they were as strong as the state
of my garrison, and the works in hand, would allow. It is true, indeed, I
obtained by them no certain intelligence of the enemy's force until they
landed atThree-Mile Point, nor was it possible before; theypossessed neither
the gifts of divination, nor walking upon the water; but they could give
me information if any part of the enemy's army was advancing by land,
and that was all I could expect from them."
The second charge is cowardice, treachery, and incapacity as a General.
"By Mr. Leavenworth's testimony again are these accusations to be sup
ported; not in a direct manner, but by inference and deduction from that
part of it which the committee in the above remark say he gave them, viz.,
'that the enemy were not annoyed in the advance to, and investiture of, the
posts;' but which he in part contradicted here, as I observed before, and
which, by Colonel Stevens, General Wilkinson, Colonel Livingston, Major
Dunn, and others, I have proven to be false. The inferences of consequence
are false likewise, and, of course, the charges groundless. But I believe it
is the first instance where charges of a capital nature have been brought
against an officer by deduction, without a shadow of proof to support them ;
and cowardice and treachery are capital crimes, altheugh thecommittee have
directed them to be tried by an article of war to which no capital crime
whatever can be referred, having been expresslv provided for crimes not
capital. I waive, hewever, any advantage that might bo taken of this. My
reputation, or my safety, shall never depend upon the blunders of any set of
men whe may think proper to accuse me, but, when proof is wanting, can-
454 The St. Clair Papers.
hearing from you since I saw you at Stillwater, induced me to be
lieve my letter of the 20th September miscarried. To prevent the
dor will never attribute actions to the worst cause from which they could
possibly flow, good nature will ever ascribe them to the best. Hitherto,
however, I have experienced very little of either But my birth, sir, my ed
ucation, my connections, both in this country and in Britain, my station ir»
life, my children (if to these had not been added the habitude of early life),
as they were the best pledges, so they should have secured me from the im
putation of those most shameful vices, from which the meanest of the peoplo
are generally free. But my reputation rests not on that bottom. I am
happy in the general good opinion of the army, which is never bestowed
upon cowards, nor has all the calumny that I have been loaded with shaken
me a single friend. The court have the fullest evidence that on every occa
sion I have given demonstration of an active, as well as passive, courage;
my conduct in that respect has been uniform on all occasions ; and this is
confirmed by the concurring testimony of many of the principal ofEcers of
the army, with some of whom I have been, personally, in almost every
action that has happened during the war. From thence they must conclude
that, whatever might have been the motives for my evacuating Ticonderoga,
it could not have been owing to cowardice, and that the charge is false, ma
licious, and scandalous.
"Treachery, sir, is a crime it is impossible to prove, positively, not to have
been committed. It is, therefore, necessary, in order to fix it, that some ac
tual commission should be proven, but, as this has not been attempted, it is
enough, alone, to overthrow the charge. But I beg leave to inform the
court that when Congress appointed me to the command of a regiment, I
considered it as the call of my country, that could admit of no refusal. I
reflected that somo knowledge acquired by study, mid the service of the last
war (during which I was in almost every seige and every action of conse
quence), put me in a situation to bo of some use to our army in its infant
state. My country, I thought, had a right to my services, and to every ad
vantage that could bo derived from my experience. I, therefore, without
hesitation, resigned an henorableand profitable employment I then held un
der the Crown, to qualify myself for that offered by Congress, notwithstand
ing it was not of one-halt the yearly value. 1 quitted tho sweets of a re
tirement I was fond of, the pleasures of domestic life, and the care of edu
cation, and provision for a rising family (both of which claimed my closest
attention), for the toils, the hardships, and the extraordinary expenses of
war Had this the appearance of treachery? And yet, for these, I have
met with the ungracious return of those cruel accusations, though, surely,
they were not the natural returns for such conduct. "What further promo
tion Congress were pleased to confer upon me was wholly unsolicited. I
received it with gratitude, determined that my actioi s should be the best
proof of the sense I had of the honor they had done me; nor have I been
therein disappointed. My country now reaps the solid advantages of my
conduct, whilst I am loaded with obliquy and abuse. I forgive it, however,
but I can never forget that the channels of justice have been shut against
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 455
like misfortune, this goes under cover of George frost, Esq., a
member of Congress from this State.
I sincerely long to see a publication in the papers of your acquitme,
and that for thirteen long, long months, I have been hung up to be
stung by the envenomed tongue of malice, and pointed at by the finger of
folly. But the sentence of this court will, I trust, place me once more in
that honorable point of view from which I have not deserved to be re
moved, having been careful to observe that maxim of Horace—
Nil conacire stlbi, nulla pallaseere culpa I1"
But the committee again return to the point of evacuating the posts,
and declare that it ought to have taken place when the enemy reached ThreeMile
Point [General St. Clair established the fact that in April Congress
had declared that, unless the Eastern States came to the relief of the garri
sons, the posts would be lost. Then, why did not Congress, the supreme
power, order the evacuation ?]. General St. Clair continued .
"Sir, had a retreat been attempted upon the enemy's landing at ThreeMile
Point, and the steps pursued which the committee have enumerated above,
it is impossible, in the nature of things, but the army must have been cut
oft", or fallen prisoners into their hands. But, by our putting a good face upon
the matter, and showing a determination to hold both posts, they were in
duced to divide their force, in order to invest us, and reduce by the more
slow but certain method of regular approach; not that this methed was nec
essary to them, for they might most certainly havo carried us by assault at
any time. But assaults are frequently very bloody things, and on that cir
cumstance I chiefly depended for rendering my small garrison serviceable
to their country. I was in hopes the enemy would assault us, and some ac
count-! thut I had, that they were short of provisions, gave me some reason
to expect it. I depended upon my troops; I was persuaded they were brave,
and I believed they, too, had confidence in mo. Every order and every ad
vice I gave them, pointed directly to that object—and I still believe that,
had they attempted it, we should have given so good an account of them,
that the conquest of Ticonderoga would have terminated the operations of
that campaign, but conquered it would havo been after all our exertions.
Every letter I havo written holds up the same idea, and I always speak of
an attack as contradistinguished from a seige; and the character of the Gen
eral I was opposed to gave me reason to expect something by assault or
surprise. 1 mentioned to Congress, so early as the 2oth of June, the great
deficiencies in troops and provisions, and the probability of my being obliged,
from these circumstances, to evacuate. The moment I was informed, with
any tolerable degree of certainty, of their numbers, which I was not until
the 3d of July, from a prisoner and some deserters (their information was
confirmed by a spy I sent into their camp the 3d and returned the 6tli), and
saw that they meant a regular seige, I was certain the defending the posts
effectually was impossible. Tho moment, however, 1 chose for the retreat,
(1) The quotation complete is as follows:
Hie murus aSneus esto, Nil conscire »tbi, nulla pnllescere culpa.—JCp. 1. 1, 60.
456 The St. Clair Papers.
tal respecting the evacuation of Ticonderoga, which I am very sen
sible must be with the greatest honor, and, when that happy period
arrives, I hope to again have the satisfaction of serving under you
as it was the only one was in my power to cheose, so it was almost the only
one after the enemy's landing at Three-Mile Point in which the retreat
could have been effected.
" I have fully proven that the sick were not left behind nor lost; that
great part of the cannon, all the ammunition, the baggage and tents of the
army, the hospital stores, and part of the provisions, were removed from Ti
conderoga—as much as could at once have been removed at any prior time.
Every boat was loaded. I think I have proven it to have been necessary,
and well conducted, and that the confusion, occasioned principally by the
burning of General Fermoy's house, and his not circulating the orders to
his brigade at the proper time, was soon remedied. I beg the Court to re
flect one moment upon what was to be done, and how shert the time to do
it in I For, though the evacuation was resolved on about three o'clock in the
afternoon, we could not begin to carry it into execution until night came on,
the enemy being in possession of a high hill on the opposite side of the lake,
from whence they could see our every movement ; that it was the season
when the nights are at the very shortest, and that it was, moreover, moon
light; and that the necessity of keeping the matter a secret, until the very
moment of evacuation, prevented any preparatory steps being taken to ex.
pedite the business, and they will be of the opinion that more was never
done, caeteris paribus, in equal time; and if, in the different embarkations,
some irregularities did happen, when every circumstance is taken in —the
suddenness of the thing; the disposition every man would naturally have
to save perhaps his little all ; the confusion the night alone is apt to occa
sion ; the distance every thing had to be carried, and their variety, the can
did mind will be more apt to wonder that any order could be preserved,
than that some irregularities supervened. I need not tell this honorable
Court that a retreat, with an inferior army, from before a superior one, is
perhaps the most dangerous and delicate undertaking in the whole circle of
military operations, and that it never will be effected without prudence,
fortitude, and secrecy. I hope I have satisfied the Court that I could not
order the evacuation until the last moment, when I saw no alternative be
twixt that and the certain loss of the army. I think I have proven that
that moment was arrived, as one day more would probably have completed
the investment of the posts, and then it would have been impossible. I
have proven that my motive was not to avoid the enemy, but to save the
army, and, by removing them to a place where reinforcements could reach
them, to make them as a basis of a force sufficient to cover the country, and
check the progress of the enemy; and this 1 did with the certainty of a
loss of reputation, the price few people are willing to pay even for the pros
perity of their country. I, indeed, expected it would be a temporary loss
only, nor will it be more, though it has already been of much longer dura
tion than I looked for; and I fear the so long delaying to afford me an op
portunity to vindicate my character, is not very likely to induce others who
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 457
in the army, as nothing could give me greater pleasure. My dear
Sir, let me hear from you as soon as possible. In the meantime, be
assured none wishes you more happiness than your most obedient
humble servant.
may happen in like circumstances to make a similar sacrifice. My letter to
Congress, of the 14th of July, proves that I foresaw the events that would
probably happen, and which must have had some effect upon my determina
tion.
"Indeed, from the knowledge I had of the country through which General
Burgoyne had to advance, the difficulties I knew he would be put to to sub
sist his army, and the contempt he would naturally have for an enemy
wheso retreat I concluded he would ascribe to fear, 1 made no doubt he
would soon be so far engaged, as that it would be difficult for him either to ad
vance or retreat. The event justified my conjecture, but attended with con
sequences beyond my most sanguine expectations. A fatal blow given to
the power and insolence of Great Britain, a whole army prisoners, and the
reputation of the arms of America high in every civilized part of the
world! But what would have been the consequences had not the steps
been taken, and my army had been cut to pieces or taken prisoners? Dis
grace would have been brought upon our arms and our counsels, fear and
dismay would have seized upon the inhabitants, from the false opinion that
had been formed of the strength of these posts, wringing grief and moping
melancholy would have filled the now cheerful habitations of those whose
dearest connections were in that army, and a lawless host of ruffians, set
loose from every social tie, would have roamed at liberty through the defenseless
country, whilst bands of savages would have carried havoc, devastation,
and tenor before them! Great part of the Stat1) of New York must have
submitted to the conqueror, and in it he could have found the means to
enable him to prosecute his success. He would have been able effectually to
have co-operated with General Howe, and would probably have soon been
in the same country with him; that country where our illustrious General,
with an inferior force, made so glorious a stand, but who must have been
obliged to retire if both armies came upon him at once, or might have been
forced, perhaps, to a general and decisive action in unfavorable circumstances,
whereby the hopes, the now well-founded hopes of America, of liberty, of peace
and safety, might have been cut off forever. Every consideration seems to
prove the propriety of the retreat, that I could not undertake it sooner, and
that, had it been delayed longer, it had been delayed too long."
The Court, having duly considered the charges against Major-General St.
Clair, and the evidence, are unanimously of opinion that he is Not Quilty
of either of the charges against him, and do unanimously acquit him of all
and every of them with the highest honor. B. Lincoln, President. The Court adjourned without day.
1He received the brevet of Brigadier-General immediately after deliv
ering General Gates's dispatches to Congress, announcing the victory over
Burgoyne.
458 The St. Clair Papers.
Marquis de Lafayette to General St. Clair.
On Board of tiie Alllvnce, \
Boston, 9th January, 1779. )
Dear Sir : —I have received the letter 1 you have honored me with,
and most heartily thank you for it, and for the sending of the pro
ceedings of your court-martial. I hope I need not to tell you how
much my heart was interested in any thing which happened to you,
and how much I rejoiced, not that you are acquitted, but that at
length your conduct was examined. My own sentiments did not want
the confirmation for admiring your behavior and your talents; but I sin
cerely give joy to your country, that, notwithstanding all cabals,
due jitstice is at last paid to such a citizen and soldier as you are.
Your justification will be duly known in France as soon as I arrive
there.
Farewell, my dear Sir ; do not forget me, and believe me, with
an equal esteem, regard and friendship.
P. S. —I wish you could come to see me in France, and receiv
ing you there would be a true happiness to me.
General St. Clair to Robert Morris.
Camp at Whitemarsii, November 13th, 1777.
.Sir : —The resolution of the Board of War, respecting the provid
ing necessaries for the army, which was last night communicated by
the General 2 to a council of war, has occasioned my troubling you
with this. They desire the General to take from the inhabitants all
the blankets, shoes, and other necessaries they can possibly spare ;
that he appoint proper officers to make the collection, and that no
great regard be paid to the circumstances of the disaffected. I can
not bring myself to think that any effectual supply for the army
can possibly be procured in this manner ; indeed, I do not believe
an adequate supply of blankets can in any manner be obtained, and
the gentlemen who compose that Board seem to have forgotten how
much the inhabitants of this State have already been stripped of
the article of blankets; so much, however, I am certain it has been
the case, that very many families will sensibly feel the effects of it
1 Lafayette was about to sail for France, for the purpose of inducing the
Court of that country to give more active assistance to the American cause.
The letter was not found among the St. Clair papers.
2 General "Washington.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 459
this winter. The troops of many of the neighboring States, as well
as our own, have been supplied by them, which is the reason that
almost two-thirds of the militia who are got into the field come un
provided with that article. How reasonable soever it may appear
that the disaffected part of the inhabitants should be compelled to
contribute beyond conveniency, as the Board have pointed out no
criterion whereby to determine their disaffection, I can not help
thinking it improper it should be left to the judgment of the offi
cers who may be appointed, as, let their acquaintance be as extensive
as can reasonably be supposed, they must necessarily be ignorant,
both of the principles aud circumstances of great numbers ; and, if
they are to depend upon information, it is not improbable it will
often proceed from malice and private pique. The New England
States have never contributed a single blanket towards the general
supply of the army ; and, I believe, generally their own troops have
been furnished with those that were imported. Their country pro
duces a great quantity of wool, and the inhabitants make many
blankets. They, therefore, must be in a situation to contribute to
the wants of the army more effectually, and with less inconvenience,
than this country, that has already been stripped almost naked, and
that, from its posts being so strictly guarded, is cut off from any re
cruit from abroad. If there is reason for dealing severely with the
disaffected, I am persuaded they are not in fewer numbers nor in
worse circumstances in New England than in Pennsylvania, howso
ever immaculate some people may endeavor to make us believe it.
Be that as it may, I am persuaded the collecting them in the man
ner prescribed for Pennsylvania would not be thought eligible for
New England, and I can not help wishing that some other may be
devised, if another contribution must be made here, as that may be
very unequal aud oppressive, aud will certainly be highly irritating.
The people are already not a little jealous of the army, and such an
exertion of what will appear to them military power, cau not but
produce mischievous effects. It is certain, however, that the army
cau not possibly keep the field in this severe season which is just at
hand without a supply of clothing. The difficulties that seem to
attend it for this trifling army would lead to a train of thought
which I do not like to indulge, and would by no means trouble you
with.
The utmost that can possibly be expected from this State is to
provide for their own troops, and what may be drawn from the in
habitants should not be diverted into other channels.
460 The St. Clair Papers.
General St. Clair to Joseph Reed, President of Penn
sylvania.
Camp near Van Ness's Bridge, February 21st, 1779.
Sir:—The bearer, Major Mentgiz, after much solicitation, has ob
tained leave to go to Philadelphia in order to make his claim to the
Committee of Arrangements. He and Major Murray conceive
themselves to be injured by the promotion of Major Nichols, and I
do myself the honor to inclose you the representations they have
made to me on that head Nothing would satisfy him but his going
to Philadelphia to make them in person, to which the General1 at
last reluctantly consented. You will probably be troubled likewise,
in a few days, with the claims, I should rather say demands, of the
officers of the First Regiment with regard to Captain McKissie.
Upon his arrival, two of the officers waited upon me to acquaint me
that all the officers had determined to resign in case Captain Mc
Kissie insisted on availing of the appointment he had received." I
advised them to a decent representation of their rights to the Board
of War, assuring them that if, through any mistake or inadvertence,
they had been injured, they might depend upon redress, putting
them, at the same time, in mind of the hardships of captivity, and
fhat the rule they seemed to wish established for Captain McKissie
might operate hereafter against some one, or all of themselves—in
answer to which I received a letter, signed by three Captains, the
Captain-Lieutenant and six Lieutenants, which is nearly all the
officers p-eseut with the regiment, in which they formally resign
their commissions, declaring they are determined not to serve a
moment under what they deem an imposition. Their pretensions
are founded on the resolve of Congress, that directs the promotion
to be regimental up to a certain rank. It gives me great pain to see
such a spirit of cabal prevail amongst the troops of our State, for
I take both this and the pretensions of Majors Mentgiz and Murray
to be greatly owing to that, and, if it is given way to, it is very hard
to say where it may stop ; and, yet, if the resignations are accepted, it
will be very difficult to find officers to supply their places ; and what
adds to the misfortune, they are generally officers of approved
•General Washington.
2Captain McKissie hud been a prisoner, and the Board of "War having
decided that such hardship sheuld not work the loss of position or promotion
to officers, when exchanged he availed himself of the rule. This was resisted
by the officers in line of promotion, who had not been captured. This rule
was prolific of dissensions, notwithstanding its justice.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 461
bravery and character. I have, however, for the present, refused
the resignations, and assured them that I would present none to his
Excellency that should ever come in like manner. This will prob
ably bring them to send a memorial to your Excellency, or the
Board of War, and I have mentioned it that you might be prepared
for it beforehand, and perhaps be able to devise some remedy.
On Monday, a person, whom the officers have agreed to recom
mend for the distribution of the stores the State have been pleased
to provide for their troops, will set out for Philadelphia, by whom
your Excellency will receive the information respecting the mode
pursued in the Maryland line you wished for. I hope, after his ar
rival, if the Council approve of him, the stores will be forwarded
without delay, as it would certainly help to allay the discontents
that too generally prevail.
One of them, I find, has arisen amongst the soldiery, from a no
tion that they have generally been returned as engaged for the war,
and this opinion has prevailed, too, amongst the officers, although
their enlistments chiefly run for three years, or during the war. I
am very clear their time of service determines with the three years,1
and that the war is only a limitation of the engagement, on a sup
position it may be over before that period elapses ; but you will
oblige me by informing me whether I am not mistaken.
General St. Clair to President Reed.
Camp at Millstone, March bill, 1779.
iSir :—I have the honor to inclose you somc of the resolutions of
the State of Massachusetts Bay, relative to the supply of their
troops ; and letters from General Scott, of New York, and the
commissary of that State, on the same subject. The resolves
of Connecticut have not yet been procured. By them you will
observe how differently the troops of these States have been
treated from those of Pennsylvania, and that in New York they
have extended their attention and bounty to the families of their
soldiers, who are supplied with the necessaries of life at very mod.
erate rates- The same, I am told, has taken place in Mas1
This difference of opinion as to term of enlistment resulted in the mutiny
of the Pennsylvania line, which came near being disastrous to the whole
army at a most critical period. It was finally adjusted by Congress accept
ing the statement made abovo by General St. Clair, which will be more fully
explained hereafter.
462 The St. Clair Papers.
sachusetts Bay. I wish I was certain that many of ours, in this
time of scarcity, were not starving.
The troops of Virginia are also supplied with necessaries at very
low prices, and, at this very time, broad-cloths and linens are sold
in camp to their officers, at as low a price as they could ever have
been purchased for; besides, they are now making up their paybooks
for six months' pay, a present from the State as some compen
sation for the depreciation of the money. This difference alone,
would sufficiently account for the dissatisfaction that so generally
prevails in the Pennsylvania line ; so great that the officers are
ready to seize even the shadow of a pretext to quit the service, and,
unless some remedy is very soon applied, I believe we shall have
very few officers indeed left by the opening of the campaign. An
other reason, however, is the effect of that resolve of Congress that
restrains them to one ration. It bears very hard upon them ; the
money they receive from those retained being so far from an equiv
alent that it will scarce purchase any thing—to such a low ebb is
our money run down, and the cursed spirit of extortion risen at
the same time ; in the meantime, I have heard that there are some
stores coming on. This will, I hope, convince them that they are
not altogether neglected, and nothing in my power shall be wanting
to keep them easy until further provision can be made ; but I very
much doubt its being in the power of the State to supply them so
amply as some of our Southern and Eastern neighbors.
The mode of oppressing the district for a regulated number of
shoes and stockings, as mentioned in General Scott's letter, it seems
to me might easily be carried into execution in Pennsylvania, and,
thereby, I think, a very considerable supply might be procured.
General St. Clair to President Reed.
March 6, 1779.
Sir:—Since I wrote you, yesterday, another very disagreeable
circumstance has occurred in our line, which I was informed of an
hour ago. The officers, it seems, have formed a committee to state
their grievances to the field officers, who were some time ago ap
pointed by General Wayne to correspond with the Committee of
Assembly. They enumerated to them several, the principal of
which, however, were : the depreciated state of the money, and the
little care that has been taken to supply them, whilst the troops of
some other States, serving with them, have been very amply and
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 463
very reasonably supplied- So far, they had reason ; but they have
gone farther. They complain of the half-pay establishment, and
want a provision made for the widows of such officers as have
fallen or ^nay fall in the contest, and require them to represent
these matters to the legislature of the State, and acquaint them
that, if they do not receive entire satisfaction on these jwints, on or
before the 15th of April,1 every officer of the line will then resign
their commissions into the hands of the executive council.
1Millstown Camp, March 8, 1779.
Dear General:—Agreeably to your request, I do myself the honor of
transmitting you exact copies of the two arrangements. The latter is likely
to create great uneasiness. General St. Clair has recommended a board of
field-officers to sit, and endeavor to settle it amongst themselves. We shall
have a difficult task of it. The officers are greatly irritated. Yesterday they
presented a letter to the committeo, signed in behalf of all the officers pres
ent, stating many well-founded grievances, desiring us to paint tbem in as
striking terms as possible, and to inform the House of Assembly, unless im
mediate redress is granted, they would unanimously resign their commis
sions by the 15th of April. The matter is really serious; such a step will
dissolve the division. We have written to the committee of correspondence
yesterday, informing them of the fixed determination of the officers; but I
suppose it will be treated, as we havo been, with neitlcct and contempt.
Should you incline to accept the command of the Light Corps,1 I shall
1 General Wayne had applied to General Washington for the command of the Light
Infantry in the following letter:
Philadelphia 10th Feby 1779.
Dear General
I did myself the Honor of writing to you the 20th ultimo mentioning that I was
Necessitated to he here at the Meeting of the Assembly of this State—& that I
sheu'd take the Liberty of waiting on you the first of the Month for leave of absence
I was unfortunately deprived the pleasure of seeing you by passing down the
Jersey shere whilst you were on your way for Camp on the Pennsa side the
Delaware. I made a point of having my people well & Comfortably Covered previous to my
leaving them—A I hepe that the Appearance of the men & the Regularity & Internal
Police of the City has met your Excellencies Approbation
I also Hatter myself that Gcnl St Clair will bo Pleased in the Command of Troops
that alwuys have A ever will do their duty in the field—& that they on their part will
be happy under tho Conduct of n Gentn to whem I chearfully give place—& Sin
cerely Esteem but at the same time I havo so much tenderness for the feelings of
the Officers that have hitherto Commanded the Pennsa lirigades, that I can't think
of Interfering with them in that point
I therefore wish to be Indulged with Command in the Light Corps—if it can take
pluoe witheut prejudice to the Service or the exclusion of an Officer of more worth
or experience—but if that can't be done. I bog your Excellency not to spend an other
theught or give yourself a Single moments Uneasiness on the Occation—but permit
me still to hepe for the Continuance of that friendship that you have hitherto hen
ored me with, and in case of an Active Campaign the Pleasure of serving near your
Person as a Voluntier.
Interim, I am with Every Sentiment of Esteem Your most Obt ifc very
Huml Sevt
Anty Wayne
464 The St. Clair Papers.
I know not that in my life I have met with any thing that gave
me so much uneasiness for the time ; indeed, the committees that
esteem it a singular happiness to be honored with a command under you. 1
received a letter some days since from Colonel Magaw, on Long'sland; he
desires his compliments. And believe me, dear General, your most obedient,
humble servant, Josiah Harmae.
To General Wayne.
An examination of the communications of General Washington to Con
gress, during the winter of 1779, will show how widespread was the dissatis
faction in the army. "I have more than once intimated," suid he, '• that
even a dissolution of the army is not an improbable event, if some effectual
measures were not taken to render the situation of the officers more com
fortable." "The patience of the officers has been along time nourished by the
hope that some adequate provision was in contemplation. Though nothing
satisfactory has hitherto been done, their hopes have been still kept alive;
but this can not be much longer the case, and when they come once to fix
an opinion that they have nothing to expect, they will no longer combat the
necessity that drives them from the service." "Indeed, not to multiply ar
guments upon a subject so evident, it is a fact not to be controverted that
the officers can not support themselves with their present pay; that neces
sity will oblige them to leave the service unless better provided for; and
that remaining in it, those who have no fortunes will want the common ne
cessities of life, and these whe have fortunes, must ruin them." This is fol
lowed by an appeal to provide half-pay for the officers, and pensions for
their families in case of their death. The chief cause for the distress was
the depreciated currency, which was daily becoming worse. This crisis had
been hastened by the folly of Congress in insisting on short enlistments in
obedience to the demands of New England, where the pride was in the
militia. " Had my advice respecting this matter," said Washington to Joseph
Reed, in 1779, " been pursued in the years 1775 and 1776, our money would
have been upon a very different establishment in point of credit to what it
is at this day, and we should have saved millions of pounds in bounty
money, and the consequent evils of expiring armies and new levies."
The rapidity of the depreciation and increase of distress is shown in a
sentence or two: "An attempt has been made," wrote Keed, in 1777, "to
give the old paper money the currency of gold and silver, but it does not
succeed. While beef is sold for 2s. 6d. per pound in gold and silver, they ask
4s. and 4s. (3d. in paper." In 1779, beef was 10s. per pound in Baltimore, the
cheapest market in the Colonies; butter, four dollars per pound, and hay
from £90 to £120 per ton.
The representations of St. Clair and the officers under him moved the
General Assembly of Pennsylvania to attempt to do something to relieve
the distress and discontent. On the 13th of March [see Journals of Assembly,
pp. 335-36], resolutions were adopted, giving to every Pennsylvania officer
who received the seven years' half-pay from Congress, a continuation of the
samo during life, with pensions to their widows, and exempting all lands
given to officers and soldiers from taxation. In the following year, these
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 465
have been from time to time formed in the army I ever had a bad
opinion of, and dreaded ill consequences from. They are certainly
destructive of that subordination which is the soul of discipline,
and will spread the spirit of mutiny and disobedience through the
whole. Unfortunately, our circumstances will not admit of our
applying the proper remedy ; it is, therefore, necessary to temporize, '
and I have accordingly shown every mark of disapprobation that
did not tend directly to inflame the evil, and by promising to write
myself, and desiring the field officers to write ; by representing to
them the impossibility that the Legislature would yet have had
time to take up and consider the grievances they suffered, that had
already been stated to them ; and the probability that before the
time they had specified, they would be convinced of their sincere in
tentions to make their situation as easy as any of their fellowsoldiers,
have, I hope, put a stop to a combination ruinous to our
public affairs, and disgraceful both to the State and to the parties,
but which had it once been gone into, the principles of false honor
might have led them religiously to observe. At the same time, it
is my duty to inform you explicitly that their complaints are but
too well founded ; that I believe necessity has, in a great measure,
compelled them to the steps they have taken ; and their distresses
are aggravated by the comparisons which are constantly before them,
which must inevitably sour the minds of men of spirit, who have
the consciousness of having literally borne the heat and burden of
the day.
It might serve to elucidate their disagreeable situation if I were
to give you a detail of the prices which things in general bear. It
would be tedious, however, and I will only say that most articles
are as high as in the market of Philadelphia, and some much higher.
Judge of the rest from this circumstance—a dozen of eggs can not
be purchased for less than two dollars.
Having mentioned the ill consequences of combination for any
provisions were embodied in a statute. [Sec 1 Smith's Lawn, 487.1 This
prompt action prevented tlie dissolution of the Pennsylvania line.
The chief credit for this happy event is due to St. Clair and his friend,
Judge Thomas Smith, who at that time was a member of the General As
sembly. In n letter from him to General St. Clair, under date of March
27th, I find this paragraph: "I hope my'friend will join with me in ex
pressing his approbation of our resolves with regard to the army. Immedi
ately on the receipt of your letter, I made the motion on which they are
founded." "The same committee that brought them in, brought in some
others yesterday, as well for the benefit of the recruiting service, as to ex
tend the operations of our first resolves more generally."
30
460 The St. Clair Papers.
purpose whatever, amongst our officers, I can not help taking no
tice, in extenuation, though it serves to confirm the principle of their
danger, that the officers of our State have been led into this by the
example of those of New Jersey, who, some time ago, made a simi
lar representation, which produced an immediate resolve of the
Council for issuing a very considerable sum of money for their
relief.
I am sure I need not press you on this head, but give me leave
to repeat that it is necessary something should be done immediately,
or there is too much reason to fear the dissolution of our parf of the
army. No exertions of mine shall be wanting to prevent so great
a calamity ; and though it is a misfortune to have come to the com
mand of it at this trying period, if I can steer happily through it,
and render any service to my country, I shall not regret any pains
it will cost me.
Your favor of the 28th ult. is this moment come to hand, and
the stores were yesterday at Trenton. They will arrive in a happy
time, and I hope by a proper distribution of them to make matters
easier. It must have the effect to convince the officers that the
State does not entirely neglect them, and will keep alive expectation,
the best handle by which the human mind can be laid hold of; and
I shall not fail to make the officers acquainted with the pains you
have taken to serve them in this business.
The disputed claims of the officers the General has referred to
ourselves, and to-morrow the field officers will meet upon it at my
quarters, when I hope we shall be able to hit upon some mode that
will please all parties, which, by the by, will not be very easy, in
terest and obstinacy generally appearing under one banner.
If any attempts have been made to engage the gentlemen of the
army in the parties that unhappily distract our State, it is altogether
unknown to me,1 nor will it ever meet with my countenance ; aud
although I have always been, from principle, opposed to our present
Constitution, of which I have never made a secret (and in private
lite would have joined in any measures that promised to bring about
an amendment), yet, whenever it appears to be the choice of the
majority of my fellow-citizens, I shall consider it as my duty to ac1
While tin; party feeling seems to have been kept from General St. Clair,
nevertheless the violence of partyism then raging and distracting the citi
zens of Pennsylvania, on account of the defects of the Constitution of 1776,
did reach the soldiers under him, as the correspondence of his subordinates
shows. But the prevailing sentiment was in accord with that expressed by
St. Clair.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 467
quiesce. My opposition never arose from a dislike to men, but be
cause I thought it contained principles unfavorable to liberty, and
must inevitably sooner or later end in a tyranny of the worst kind.
That pettishness that quarrels with a government on account of
those who happen for the time to administer it, is unworthy a man
of sentiment and reflection.
I am very s:irry that the letters of Colonels Butler, Harmar and
Hay should have been so expressed as to admit of a construct inn
I am persuaded they did not intend. I will have an explanation of
that matter as soon as I can see them.
President Reed to General St. Clair.
Philadelphia, April 2&th, 1779.
Dear Sir:—Your favor should not have been so long unanswered.
The variety of intrusted business has very much engrossed my at
tention. When I proposed an alteration in the mode of distribu
tion of the articles sent to camp, I was not aware of the difficulty
you suggest, but that may be easily got over, if upon consideration
you think the system may be altered for the better. The real
scarcity as well as the extravagant prices demanded, will undoubt
edly, at times, occasion some interruption of a regular supply, and
I would wish you to give it some share of attention, and propose
whatever may occur to you as an improvement. The plan you
mention of a regular return of the names of the men, and the
articles chosen by them, I very much approve, and as it is a very
heavy article of expense to the State, it will give me satisfaction if
the officers will sec that there are no irregularities. Women and
children, wagoners, etc., and staff officers, will be considered as
entitled, and I hope the officers will see that no improper persons
are borne on the returns.
Congress have directed the recruiting service to go on, and with
the privileges now given, I think some good recruits may be had, if
the bounty could be given, but the demands upon the treasury are
now so great as to baffle every means of supply, and we have not
been able to draw one shilling for the service.
You say there is a desire prevalent at camp for the taking of some
public measures in respect to deserters, and I have had it in con
templation to issue a proclamation, specifying the reward, and en
couraging them to bring them up, but if you can suggest any other
stimulus we shall be glad to make use of it.
4G8 The St. Clair Papers.
Pennsylvania has had a pretty smart struggle since I saw you,
with the august assembly, which dues us the honor of residing
amongst us. I thought at one time we must have come to au open
breach, but more temperate means prevailed, livery step suggested
by us was adopted, with some little partialities to General Arnold,
which his friends at last worried Congress into. However, we ap
proved the course of the business on the whole, only wishing that
all the charges against him could have been brought before the
court-martial; for we have such a confidence in the Whiggism and
good sense of the officers, as to believe it desirable that all his pro
ceedings here should be directed to public view. His friends in
Congress got three [four] of the points withdrawn,' as not being
proper to go before a court-martial, adverting to one of the articles
of war, which says: "That conduct unbecoming a gentleman and
an officer, is not a proper subject for inquiry before a court-martial."
The time allowed for the trial was far too short to procure the nec
essary attendance of witnesses. I have, therefore, wrote to the
General to fix a time more convenient ; the 1st of June would be a
much more convenient time. I should be glad if you would if not
improper, represent this more strongly to the General than a letter
could. Considering the connections between Mr. Dunn and General
Arnold, and Mr. Dunn and L , I should hope L may not be
upon the court-martini.1
The Assembly did not transmit us the resolution which you men
tioned. Congress can not answer the demands of the Commissaries'
and Quartermasters' Department, and of the money we are to re.
ceive, we can only get it in small sums. In consequence of your
1 After the evucuntion of Philadelphia by thu British, General Arnold was
placed in command of the city. "Instead of making the exercise of the
military authority, with which he was invested for a temporary purpose, as
agreeable as possible to the citizens and to the local authorities Arnold, according
to all concurrent testimony, administered the military trust with
insolence." The result was, the Kxccutive Council of Pennsylvania pre
ferred eight distinct charges against him, implying neglect of duty or abuse
of power, which were laid before Congress. An investigation was ordered,
pending which high words passed between Congress and the State Assembly.
.Arnold having strong supporters in the former body. The result was a
compromise, and it was agreed that four of the charges should be sent to
General Washington, for hearing before a court-martial. The military
court did not meet until January, 1780, and Arnold was convicted on two
of the charges. After that, be was placed in command of West Point, at
his request. When his treason was discovered, evidence was produced,
showing that he had conducted a treasonable correspondence with Sir Henry
Clinton, while in Philadelphia.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 469
letter of the 17th, I directed Farmer to forbear rending any sup
plies till further orders; he had put off a cargo the day before, which
I did not think it necessary to countermand. I hope they got safe
to hand.
We have nothing new here but what, coming from the eastward,
must pass through your camp.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
Headquarters, 23iZ March, 1779.
Dear Sir:—For the more speedy assembling of the militia upon
an emergency, I have agreed with the field-officers, in this and the
next county, to erect beacons upon the most conspicuous hills, the
firing of which is to be the signal for them to repair to their dif
ferent alarm posts. You will be pleased, therefore, to order a party
from your division, consisting of an officer and twenty-four men, with
axes and four days' provisions, to be ready to-morrow morning, at
eight o'clock, to proceed to a remarkable hill near Princeton, to erect
a hcacon there. One Burrel will attend as a guide. The beacon is
to be constructed of logs, in form of a pyramid, sixteen or eighteen
feet square at the bottom, and eighteen or twenty feet high, the
inner part to be filled with brush.
General St. Clair to Colonel Mehelm.1
Camp at Millstone, March 31st, 1779.
Sir:—I received yours of this date, and have only to tell you, in
1Commissary of hides. I have u double purpose in view in giving place
to the above letter: Fiist, to shew that St. Clair had no mercy for those whe
sought to profit by the misfortunes of their country. In the letters of Wash
ington and St. Clair, during the darkest days of the war, will be found words
of honest indignation for tho-e whe took advantage of the people's necessi
ties to amass wealth. The departments of the army, from which supplies
were drawn, were notoriously corrupt. Secondly, to shew to what straits the
Americans, whose means for obtaining foreign supplies were precarious, were
reduced at this time. On one of the closing days of the year 1778, the fol
lowing entry was made in the Orderly Book: "The Commander-in-Chief
offers a reward often dollars to any person who shall by nine A. M. on Mon
day, produce the best substitute for shoes, made of rawhides. The commis
sary of hides is to furnish the hides, and the Major-General of the day is to
judge of the essays, and to assign the reward to the best article."—See Writ
ings of Washington, Vol. V.. p. 1 07.
470 The St. Clair Papers.
answer thereto, that the orders I have given for hides were by Gen
eral Washington's directions ; that the time of contracting for them
I know nothing about, nor the delivery, both having happened before
I took command in the Pennsylvania line; nor do I see the
least necessity either for the shoes being delivered to you or to the
clothier-general. I conceive neither you nor he can be entitled to
any commission upon a transaction made with the General's appro
bation, in which you have no part, and that delivery, and the pro
posed receipts, seem calculated for that end alone. I have in all
the orders I have given desired the amount might be charged to the
regiments, by which they would properly appear in your accounts,
and the public know where to get payment. I make no construc
tions upon general orders, and I expect you will now inform me, ex
plicitly, whether you will deliver the hides or not.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
Headquarters, Middlebrooe, 267/1 May, 1779.
Dear Sir:—My intelligence from New York1 renders it indis
pensably necessary for me to look towards the posts in the Highlands.
As your division has been inspected, I wish you to hold it
in the most perfect readiness for marching and encamping at an
hour's warning. For these purposes you will settle matters with
the Quartermaster-General. As it is much my wish to have the
1 General "Washington formed ihe opinion, early in the spring, tlmt the
British contemplated some important movement besides the operations alreadv
undertaken against South Carolina and Georgia, and the const of Vir
ginia, and lie made such dispositions of his small force as he could to meet
tlio emergency. He had sixteen thousand men—three thousand under Gates
in New England, six thousand, a part under McDougall, who was com
pleting the fortifications at West Point, and a part under Putnam on the
east side of the Hudson, and seven thousand under his own immediate com
mand at Middlebrook. There were indications of n movement on the Con
necticut coast, but it was probable that the chief design of the enemy was to
possess himself of the passes in the Highlands, which, as he coutrolled the
navigation of the Hudson, seemed ea«y of accomplishment ; or to take pos
session of West Point and Middlebrook, so as to keep the American forces
divided. With his inferior force, and without the aid of a naval force,
Washington could only act on the defensive. His operations were limited
to securing the important passes on the Hudson, and affording protection to
the country. In May, he ordered General St. Clair to move his division
forward to support McDougall, while he prepared to follow with the rest of
his troops.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 471
troops in the best possible condition for the campaign, I shall de
pend upon you (principally) and the officers commanding brigades
and regiments in your division to see that the orders of the 17th of
April are strictly complied with, so far as they relate to their re
spective commands.
Official Instructions to St. Clair.
Headquarters, Middlebrook, 29</i May, 1779.
Sir:—You will be pleased to march immediately with the divis
ion under your command, by way of Quibble Town and Scotch
Plains, and take post on the heights between Springfield and
Chatham, till further orders, or till some enterprize of the enemy
shall make a sudden movement necessary.
If you should receive authentic advice of the enemy's operating
up the North River, against our posts in that quarter, you are in
stantly to advance to their support, without waiting orders from me,
ouly giving me notice of your movement. You will pursue the
route by Pcmpton, keeping up a correspondence with General McDougall,
or officer commanding in the Highlands, and regulating
your inarch according to circumstances and the information you re
ceive, advising me, from time to time, of your progress and views.
You will preserve the strictest discipline, and endeavor to prevent
every kind of injury to the persons and property of the inhabitants.
You will also take uncommon care to lay open no inclosures of grass
or grain, more than arc absolutely necessary for the purposes of
forage.
I recommend it to your particular attention, without delay, to
have officers of talents, attention, and industry nominated to
officiate as sub and brigade inspectors, and to improve every inter
val of leisure to have the new regulations for the order and dis
cipline of the troops carried. into execution as speedily as possible.
You arc sensible of the importance and necessity of a system.
V~
472 The St. Clair Papers.
General "Washington to General St. Clair.
Headquarters, Middle Brook, 31st May, 1779.
Dear Sir: —I have received information that the enemy were at
White Plains on the 20th. You. will, therefore, be pleased to pro
ceed immediately with your division toward Pompton, acting- after
ward agreeably to the instructions you have already received. It
is probable you will be joined there by Colonel Clark, with the
Carolina troops. I have sent him orders to meet you at that place,
subject to this condition, that they are not to contravene any direc
tions he may have received or shall receive from General McDougall,
to whose orders he has all along been subject. I shall put the
Virginia division in motion to follow you as soonjas possible.
P. S. —Since writing the above, I have received a line from Gen
eral McDougall, informing me that he had ordered Clark to the
Fort.
General St. Clair to General Washington.
SrRinGFiei.D, May 31st. —10 o'clock r. M.
Sir:—Previous to the receipt of your Excellency's letter of this
day (which arrived about four hours ago), whilst I was examining
the grounds pointed out for the division to take post in, I met with
Colonel Ogden, who informed me he had seen a person from New
York last night, that might be depended on, who informed him
that the whole of the enemy's army were marched toward White
Plains; that a quantity of fascines were embarked on board same
vessels in the East River, and many more prepared and laving at
the Narrows, on both sides of the river, which were expected to be
embarked this day ; of which, if I had had the means in my power,
' I should have given you information sooner. This seems to agree
with the intelligence your Excellency has received, and particularly
marks a design upon the posts in the Highlands. But they may
have other objects, to prevent the junction of our army on either
side the North River ; or, failing in that, having drawn our atten
tion to prevent their effecting it, to make a sudden movement to
ward New London, which, when considered in itself, although a
place of little consequence in the general scale, is of much impor
tance both to them and to us. Be these as they may, I shall move
very early to-morrow to the northward. Two routes, however, lie
before me, that under the Newark Mountains, and that above it,
and both will come within my instructions, viz., to reach Pompton.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 473
I presume your Excellency intended Pompton Meeting House, on
the Plains. Taking the lower road, I am satisfied, would give most
satisfaction to the country, hut as you have been pleased not to give
me an express route to that place, I have determined upon the up
per one, for these reasons : we can arrive sooner at the place where
we can be of service if the enemy's designs are against the posts in
the Highlands, and we avoid some difficulties that might arisefrom
the enemy's landing a party and possessing themselves of the coun
try about Paramus, knowing, as I presume they will, that part of
the army only are in motion ; the Pissarche River in front, and the
mountains on our flank, are, I am informed, at particular places only,
practicable. At all events I shall not be able to move above ten or
twelve miles to-morrow, on account of provisions. The commissaries,
depending upon some supplies here, ia which they having been dis.
appointed, are obliged to send some of their wagons back to the
magazine. I inclose a certificate of one of them, by which your
Excellency will be able to judge bow fast we may be expected to
move, for I am not informed of any magazines on my route. But
if it is in the country, within reach, unless you forbid it, it shall be
taken, and not wantonly.
I beg leave to repeat the necessity of a few horses ; many would
oulv incumber us. The artillery, for the present, is fully sufficient,
and even those, should circumstances require us to act amongst the
bills, I should wish to be clear of.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
Middlebrooe, June 1st, 1770.
Dear Sir:—I duly received your two letters1 of yesterday. I ap
prove your reasons for taking the upper route.
By the present institution of the inspectorship, neither Major
Rvan nor Mr. McCormick can, in my opinion, be appointed inspec
tors. It is to be feared, however, we may be reduced to the neces
sity of altering it, from the reluctance with which the majors under
take the office. But I could wish it might proceed as it stands.
If an alteration should take place, that will permit Major Ryan to
act in this line hereafter; the opinion I have of his qualifications
will make it entirely agreeable to me. It is hardly probable any
change so extensive should take place ns will admit Mr. McCormick,
1 Only ono of tlieso is to by found among Hie St. Clnir papers.
474 The St. Clair Papers.
but, if I recollect right, there is ia resolve of Congress providing
that brigade majors shall act as aid-de-camps to the brigadiers, with
the same rank and pay. I do not find this resolve among my pi
pers, but am making inquiry for it.
I wish Colonel Harmar1 may be induced to accept the sub-inspec
torship. I think he will answer the purpose well. It is unlucky
there is not found greater alacrity among the officers to enter into
the inspection. It is certainly a line which affords a handsome op
portunity for the display of talents, and the acquisition of military
knowledge and practice.
You observe that the enemy, among other objects, may have it
in view to prevent a junction of our force. This is an important
idea, and ought to have due influence in our movements.
I have ordered a non-commissioned officer and eight dragoons, of
the Massachusetts corps, to join you immediately.
I send you a little sketch that will serve to give you an idea of
the country you are in.
P. S.—I have also directed the Quartermaster-General to send two
or three express orders to you.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
Middlebrook, June 2d, 1779.
Sir:—I have received your letter1 of this date at half-past eight.
The Virginia division marched this day with orders to endeavor
to reach Morristowu to-morrow, and to communicate with you and
proceed according to intelligence and circumstances. You will be
pleased (o open a correspondence with the commanding officer for
this purpose.
1 See Washington to St. Clair, 30th May. The latter had suggested that
applications might be presented for Kyan and McCormick. Washington
still found embarrassments in thequartermuslerand commissary departments.
Although Greene, who was at the head of the former, and Wadsworth of
the latter, yet subordinates appointed by Congress were many of them in
capable or dishonest. The Commander-in-Chief attempted to influence
Colonel Harmar, and othir officers of well-known integrity, to accept sub
ordinate places, but in vain. The reluctance to make such a sacrifice ex
pressed in a question asked of Washington by Greene, controlled all of the
officers whe preferred active duty. " Whe ever heard," asked Greene, "of
a Quartermaster-General in history?"
2 -Not among the St. Clair Papers.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 475
To-morrow, if possible, the Maryland division will march also,
and by the same route.
I send you a small addition of cavalry.
I rely entirely on your prudence and judgment for taking such
measures as the exigency of the case shall require. So soon as the
last troops move, I shall come immediately forward to join you by
the way of Pluckamine and Morristown.
General St. Clair to General Washington.
Pompton, 3d June, 1779. —7 o'clock a. m.
Sir:—Colonel Burr arrived here about three o'clock from General
McDougall, and brings intelligence of the surrender of the fort
upon Verplanck's Point yesterday, about eleven o'clock, by capitu
lation. The garrison are prisoners of war, and the officers have
liberty to wear their side-arms.
I have no letter from General MeDougall ; but he is clearly of
opinion the enemy mean to attack the posts (at least Fort Arnold,1
the carrying of which would open to them the navigation of the
river) in the Highlands. Colonel Burr informs n.c that, by landing
near where Fort Montgomery stood, and marching to the Forest of
Dean, they would fall into a clove, which runs entirely round that
ridge on which the forts are situated, and through which a road
might be made almost as fast as an army could march. By this
clove, General McDougall thinks, the forts will be invested. Be
twixt this clove and Smith's is a chain of hideous mountains, but
through them are, no doubt, many passes, with which they may be
made acquainted by the inhabitants, whom they have debauched,
and would thereby he able to give much annoyance to any convoys
that might pass by Smith's, supposing it necessary to make use of
that road.
It seems to be General MeD.Kigali's wish that I should move to
New Windsor, and he thinks that the occupying Butter Hill might
prevent the attack upon Fort Arnold from the upper side. At the
same time, the state of the provision is very alarming ; not much
above three weeks in the respective forts, and the militia called in,
and their principal dependence for further supplies is upon their
being transported across the country from Sussex or Delaware.
I think I could easily reach New Windsor, or at least be so far
advanced through the clove as to be out of all danger of being in1Fort
Arnold was ut West Point. r
476 The St. Clair Papers.
tercepted.1 But it is necessary first to have intelligence from the
river, lest the parts of your army on this side of it should be too much
separated, aud exposed to be beaten by piecemeal. This I will eudeavor
to procure, and act according'to circumstances, of which I
shall take care to give your Excellency notice. Notwithstanding
the general opinion, that the forts are the enemy's object, Colonel
Burr mentions circumstances that leave it still doubtful. Their
troops are lauded at various places on the east side of the river, and
at Haverstraw on the west; and, after the surrender of the fort,
their largest armed vessel, supposed to be of eighteen guns, and a
galley, which had passed before, were seen towing down again.
As the passage through the clove is somewhat dangerous for single
persons, I shall send two horsemen back with Colonel Burr, and
shall, through him, communicate to General McDougall verbally.
It may, perhaps, be necessary to form a march through the clove,
in which case I shall leave my baggage at this place, to be forwarded
afterwards, as your Excellency may think proper.
Our provision wagons will not be able to supply us when at a
greater distauce, four only being allowed to each brigade, and three
of these broke down upon the road.
General Washington to General St. Clatr.
Middlebrooe, June 3, 1779.
Dear Sir:—I received your favor of yesterday at 10 o'clock last
night, and have written to General Knox to supply the ammunition,
etc., which you waut. As the enemy, notwithstanding their demon
strations of an attack upon the Highland posts, may have it in con
templation to strike this army (comprehending your division") in its
weak and divided state, it will be expedient for you to act with the
greatest caution, and perhaps not to advance beyond Pomptou till
the other divisions get up. I do not mean, however, to restrict
your movements, but leave them to be governed by your own dis
cretion, and as circumstances may require.2
1 General St. Clair was successful in his movements, and took post at Xew
Windsor, wliieh effectually covered West Point, the most important of the
fortifications.
2General Washington set his troops in motion immediately after dispatch,
ins* the above, and reached Morristown at night, whence his Secretary,
Colonel Harrison, at half-past eleven o'clock, wrote to General St. Clair,
Correspondence, Add) esses, Etc. 477
General St. Clair to General Wayne.
New Windsor, July 17, 1779.
Dear General:—It was with true pleasure that I received the
news of your success at Stony Point, on which I beg leave to pre
sent you my cordial congratulations. It is an event that makes a
very great alteration in the situation of affairs, and must have im
portant consequences, and the more glorious from its heing effected
with so little loss. It is, in short, the completest surprise I have
ever heard of.
Please to present my compliments to the gentlemen of your
family, and all our friends.1
acknowledging the receipt of u letter en route, and repealing the contents
of General Washington'* letter of the morning, lest it might hare miscarried.
Before leaving Middlubrook, General Washington wrote to the President
of Congress, informing him that the movement" of the enemy indicated an
important enterprise, and that he was hastening to the Highlands on the
Hudson as rapidly as possible. "Congress will observe, by General St.
Clair's letter, that he .expected to reach Pompton last night. 'J he Virginia
division, commanded by Lord Stirling, marched yesterday for the same
place. Huron de Kalb, with the Maryland troops, follows this morning. Wo
shall press forward with all diligence, and do every thing in our power to
disappoint the enemy."
On the (3th of June, Washington informed Congress that the British had,
on the 1st, opened a battery at Stony Point, which lies on the west bido of
the Hudson, at the landing at King's Ferry, against a small detached worK
at Vcrplanck's Point, on the east side, and kept up a cannonade all day. The
garrison (the work was called Fort LaFayettej, finding themselves invested
also on the land side, surrendered at four o'clock. The next day the force
on the east side, computed at five thousand, advanced to Bald Hill, below
the Continental Village, where it was expected an attack would be made on
the American forces and an attempt made to gain Nelson's Point, opposite
to Fort Arnold. This, however, was not attempted, and the enemy returned
to their former position —five theusand remaining on Verplanei.'s Point, and
one theusand at Stony Point—very busy fortifying.
The Americans took post at Smith's Cove, where General Washington
thought they were well posted for rendering assistance to West Point and
other posts, if the future operations of the enemy should be directed against
them.
1 General Washington chafed under the enforced inaction of his army,
and hoped for some opportunity to break the silence and showtothe country
that the enemy could not have it all his own way. The opportunity came
with the departure of considerable detachments from Sir Henry Clinton's
army for the purpose of making raids on Connecticut and Virginia. The
expedition to New London, which had been predicted by General St. Clair
in one of his letters to Washington, was the purpose of one of these. When r
478 The St. Clair Papers.
General Washington to General St. Clair.1
New Windsor, 20th July, 1779.
Dear Sir:—You will be pleased to examine critically the long
hill in front of Fort Putnam, at the extremities of which the engi
neer is commencing some works. Colonel Gouvion or Mr. Rochefontaine
will be able more particularly to designate the hill I mean.
The possession of this hill appears to me essential to the preserva
tion of the whole past, and our main effort ought to be directed to
keeping the enemy off' of it. You will make it the alarm post for
your division in the first instance, from which, if requisite, you can
reinforce the troops in front. You will consider this hill in all its
relations, and make yourself completely master of its defense. It
will be useful that this knowledge should extend to your principal
officers ; and that your officers in general should be acquainted with
the ground on which they are to act. I shall be glad also you would
they were fairly under way, General Washington projected an attack on
Stony Point, in which matter he took counsel of General St. Clair. At his
request, the latter made a survey of the enemy's works, and reported on the
expediency of the attempt. On the 9th of July, General Washington asked
General Wayne, whe had on the first been ordered to advance with his light
infantry towards Fort Montgomery, to inspect the enemy's works at Stony
Point and Verplanck's, and see bow best they could be approached. On
the 10th, he was instructed to make preparations for an attack, but at
Wayne's suggestion the attempt was postponed. On the 15th, at night,
under peremptory instructions from General Washington, Wayne made the
successful and brilliant assault on Stony Point which marked him as one of
the best fighters of the army. For the best account of this action, see Dawson's
"The Assault on Stony Point."
The above letter requires to be supplemented by the following from
General Schuyler to General Wayne.
Saratoga, July 31, 1779.
Dear Sir:—Yesterday, I was honored with a line from our amiable Genoral,
advising me of the reduction of Stony Point, and dwelling on the
propriety with which it was executed. It was not the least part of my satis
faction to learn that you conducted it; and I most sincerely congratulate
you on the increase of honor which you have acquired. Such of the enemy
as have hitherto held erroneous ideas of the bravery and military prowess
of our troops, must now be perfectly convinced of their mistake.
Pray make, not my compliments only, but my love, to General St. Clair, and
especially to that great and good man, General Washington, to whom we
are all so much indebted.
1General St. Clair was at this time at West Point.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 479
have an eye to the works to be erected, to hasten their completion
as last as possible.
General St. Clair to President Reed.
West Point, July 25th, 1779.
Sir:—Your favor of the 15th, by Mr. Broadhead, came to hand
two days ago. All the attention shall be paid to his case 1 that is
possible, and if he can be admitted into the line, it will be very
agreeable to me. His having been left out was not owing to his
being a prisoner, but to an idea that prevailed that he had de
clined all thoughts of the army, and meant to follow a mercan
tile life, in which it was confidently asserted he was engaged in that
way (the most obnoxious to the officers), known by the name of
speculation. Justice and favor, I hope, will ever govern the de
terminations of the officers when called upon to decide upon the
rights of each other, and I can assure you there does not appear the
smallest disposition to add injury to the misfortunes of those who
have been prisoners; at the same time, it is a pretty general senti
ment that the bringing in the officers of Pennsylvania taken at Fort
Washington, inco the regiments they then belonged to, is a piece
of very great injustice to the officers now of these regiments. The
places of these gentlemen having been filled up by the Council of
Safety, and the regiments now raised having nothing of the old
ones remaining but the numbers, and, in some cases, a few
of the principal officers, for whom vacancies were kept open.
1The case of Lieutenant Bruadhcnd seems to have excited deep interest.
General Washington also, under date of July 25th, asked St. Clair to prompt,
if possible, favorable action. Upon Washington's recommendation, tlio
matter was referred to a board of field officers. It would seem, from a let
ter of St. Clair's to President Keed, from West Point, August 2, 1770, the
board reported against the application, as it was found that he was precluded
by a resolution of Congress. Broadhead hud himself, unfortunately, men
tioned the resolution, of which the board were ignorant; and it was the
harder on him, as several others in the same circumstances had been intro
duced previous to that resolution.
The lollowing paragraph concludes the letter of St. Clair of that date:
"No movement in the enemy's army, of consequence, has yet taken place.
They are retired to York Island, from whence 1 think an embarkation will
soon take place, and, from some accounts 1 have received, it appears to be
destined for the eastward. However, if Sir Harry is superseded, a new plan
of operation may probably be adopted. This post will soon be in a state
that will not so much require the protection of an army."
480 The St. Clair Papers.
It gives me great satisfaction to see that you have taken tip a
subject to which you can do so much justice.1 I do, for myself
and the rest of the officers, offer you my very sincere aud hearty
thanks for your elegant address, in the character of a citizen of
Philadelphia, which can not fail to make impressions favorable to
the plan you are about to propose, as it has added to the grateful
sense the officers have of your attention to their interests. It is
a matter I have long wished to see some person of capacity and
influence undertake, as the situation of the officers, especially those
who have families, which is the case with a number, from the ex
orbitant prices of the necessaries of life, aud the depreciated state
of our currency, is really deplorable. For my own part, it-will be
impossible for me to continue in the service without reducing
mine to beggary, as I have already siient all the money I had been
able to get beforehand, and lost upwards of twenty thousand
pounds, by the money in which I was paid for my farm.
The demands upon us for wagoners weakens the line consider
ably. (Jould not some means be devised to get wagoners from
amongst the militia? Their pay is considerable, and the service
easy. I think it is not less than twenty pounds per month.
Many of our regiments are very weak, and, in the course of this
campaign, will dwindle to nothing, and the means of recruiting
them grows every day more difficult. The people of Virginia, I
am told, raised their last recruits, to the amount of two thousand,
by taxing the several battalions of militia with a certain number
of men to be ready at a certain day, aud, in case of failure, they
were to Iw drafted, leaving it to the battalions to make what
terms they pleased with the individuals who were willing to engage.
It succeeded with them, the fear of being drafted (thereby raising
the bounty) acting on the lower class, and the same fear prompt
ing those in easy circumstances to make the bounty very consid
erable. Would not some such scheme succeed with us? The seventv-fivc
dollars allowed by Congress to the recruiting officers might
be applied as part of the bounty.
1 This refers to a plan which President Heed bad formed for securing leg
islative provision for the officers and their families, either in lands or in
money, lie not only created public sentiment for it by communication* in
the newspapers, but in his address to the Assembly, on tlio 9th September,
he pressed tlio subject upon the attention of the Representatives. It was
through the efforts of Mr. Reed and Judge Thomas Smith, the very hand
some provision made by Pennsylvania (which a year later was dwelt upon
by Washington us a model for other States) was secured.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 481
I am very happy to inform you that the uneasiness that pre
vailed amongst the soldiery, with respect to the time they stood
engaged for, is at an end. The present made by Congress, of two
hundred dollars, to those who were engaged prior to January last,
came most opportunely, and was made so good use of, that the
whole, very nearly, have accepted it, signing, at the same time, an
acknowledgment that they were enlisted during the war, so that
I have the strongest hope we shall be no more troubled with mu
tinies, conventions, and desertion, which had risen to a very alarming
height, and threatened very serious consequences.
This will be delivered by Captain Ziegler, who goes for a further
supply. A small guard is necessary for an escort, but, as we know
not how soon all the men we have may be wanted, he goes without
one, trusting that a few of the invalids might be sent up with him,
who would answer the purpose perfectly well, and save so many
men from the line. Some of them might also serve as State men
and assistants to the commissaries, which we are obliged to furnish,
and which takes from us some of our best sergeants.
The reduction of Stony Point you have received an account of.
It was a very gallant action, aud reflects great honor upon General
Wayne and all the officers, both for the vigor and intrepidity with
which it was executed, and the humanity and generosity with which
the prisoners were treated. There is not an instance of a place
carried by assault where so few of the defendants have been put
to death. My friend, Colonel Butler, commanded one of the at
tacks, and distinguished himself. The enemy have again taken post
there, but not, I think, with an intention to hold it, but the better
to cover the evacuation of the post on the opposite shore, which
they will probably soon abandon. But, be that as it may, they are
certainly on the eve of some important movement, their whole army,
the garrisons of these posts excepted, being drawn down to King's
Bridge, and dispositions made, it is said, for evacuating New York.
Will you please, sir, to present my most respectful compliments
to Mrs. Reed and the ladies of your family.1
1 President Reed replied to the above letter nt length, August 8th, approv
ing, very warmly, all the suggestions contained in it. He hoped the plan
for providing for the officers who had been prisoners would bo successful
"I know it is not popular to urge their claims," said he, '-but I trust I am
not actuated by any other motives than those of justice and duty." "Tour
attention to accounts for recruiting are very acceptable to us, and I am sure
will be so to the Assembly, for amidst such waste of public money an officer
assisting his country in this respect is rara avis in terris. I am glad to
31
482 The St. Clair Papers.
General Greene to General St. Clair.
West Point, August 4th, 1779.
Sir :—I have been writing, and am now writing to all the general
officers, on a subject which respects myself.
When I was appointed Quartermaster-General, I made a special
reserve of my rank, and, consequently , of my command. In the late
arrangement, I have no particular command designated me. This
I conceive to be an injury, and, therefore, have appealed to the
officers to learn their sentiments upon two points. First, whether
my right to command, in consequence of my rank, in not unques
tionable. Secondly, whether any officer, upon just military prin
ciples, will have reason to complain of an injury from my exercising
command, in time of action, agreeable to my rank.
To these two points I wish you to give your sentiments. There
can be numberless instances adduced in answer to my claim from the
custom and usages of other armies ; but the particular reserve I
made, I should suppose puts the matter out of all doubt.
If an officer is to lose his command, and be totally excluded from
the honors of the line, in consequence of being appointed Quarter
master-General, it will be a bar against any officer of rank accepting
the appointment. That an officer of rank is necessary at the head
of this business, everybody must be sensible.
I have collected the opinions of several of the officers. They are
clear and decided in my favor, upon the right and propriety of my
claim. Your opinion will much oblige your friend.
General St. Clatr to General Greene.
West Point, AuguM 10ft, 1779.
Sir :—I now sit down to answer your favor of the 4th instant,
which was brought to my quarters when I was absent, and I have
not before had leisure to consider the subject of it.
You desire my opinion upon two points. First, whether your
right to command, in consequence of your rank, is not unquestion
able. Secondly, whether any officer (upon just military princi
ples) will have reason to complain of your exercising command
agreeably to your rank in time of action.
hear thut you hnvo composed the minds of the old soldiers; one of them is
worth three new ones."
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 483
As to the first, it is certain that a right to command is a conse
quence of rank, where there is not an exception, express or implied ;
both of which may happen. Sometimes, rank is merely honorary,
and the exception to command taken expressly in the appointment,
as I believe was the case with General Wilkinson's. It is implied
where the acceptance of a staff" office destroys both rank and com
mand, but the rank is reserved in the appointment. This I take to
be the case with you, as it was also with your predecessor, General
Mifflin.
The intention of Congress in these reservations seem to have been
that the serving in the office of Quartermaster-General should not
throw the gentlemen who might fill that station out of the line of
the army, when they ceased to fill it, but it is very clear to me they
did not intend they should exercise command in the line whilst they
continued staffofficers, and this, I think, must have been some time
ago your own view of the matter, as I recollect to have heard you
complain of being put upon duty in camp, out of the way of your
office.
There can be but little satisfaction drawn from the custom of
other armies, the constitution of most being very different from
ours. We have had, however, an instance before us, in the British
army, of the Quartermaster-General acting in the staff and com
manding in the line at the same time, which seems to make in favor
of your pretensions. But I well remember another, in the same
army, directly against them. It was this : Sometime in the cam
paign of 1758, the late General Stephens (then, I think, a major
of Provincials), commanded at Fort Ligonier, upon the Loyalhanning,
when Sir John St. Clair, Quartermaster-General, with the
rank of colonel, arrived at that Port. He immediately assumed
the command, and ordered Major Stephens to make returns of his
garrison and stores to him. The major insisted on his command,
and refused to make the returns. Sir John put him in arrest. The
major complained to General Forbes, and demanded a courtmartial.
Whether a court-martial sat upon the matter I do not
recollect, but this is certain, the major was released, restored to his
command, and Sir John censured.
I can not conceive that an officer whose rank is reserved can be
considered as totally excluded from the honors of the line, by a
temporary suspension of his command, in consequence of his filling
a station, for the most part incompatible with it; on the contrary, it
seems to me, the honors of the line are expressly secured to him by
the reservation ; neither can it be a bar against an officer of rank,
484 Ihe St. Clair Papers.
accepting the office of Quartermaster-General. I think with you,
an officer of rank ought to be at the head of that department, but I
know not that of necessity, he must be a general officer. It is a case
that does not reach me; I am, therefore, unbiased. But I should
think it an exceeding great injury to s*e an officer brought from the
staff the day of an action, to take the command of the troops I had
had the care and trouble of during the preceding part of the cam
paign, and snatch the palm that was due, perhaps, to the pains that
had been bestowed upon them in that time. I should most certainly
give up all command that very moment.
I am sorry to differ in sentiment with other officers, but, when my
opinion is asked as a friend, it is a duty to give it candidly, without
considering what may be most acceptable, or what others think of
the matter.
General St. Clair to President Reed.
West Point, August 24th, 1779.
Sir:—I have now the pleasure to acknowledge the receipt of your
favors of the 8th and 19th insts., which came duly to hand, and to
congratulate you again upon another piece of success that has at
tended our arms under Major Lee. The affair, considered abstract
edly, is of very little moment; but it shows that a spirit of enter
prise exists amongst us, makes the enemy in some measure ridiculous,
and serves to support the soldiers under the incessant fatigue they
are employed in at this post.1
Inclosed, you will find the recruiting accounts, stated by a board
of field officers, with as much exactness as they were able, but they
are far from being complete. The officers were absent or detached
with the infantry, the amount of whose accounts are not carried out.
I think the furnishing officers who may be employed in the recruit
ing service with powers to draw money from the county lieutenants,
a bad method. It would render the settlements of the accounts
much easier if money on that account was issued to the colonel, or
officer commanding the regiments only, the recruiting officers to
settle with him, he for the whole with the State. If they were
either negligent or unsuccessful, he would naturally discharge
them and send others, and nothing would be allowed in their ac1
Major Henry Lee, Jr., surprised the enemy at Paulus Hook, not over a
mile ami a quarter from New York, on the night of the 19th of July, killed
abnit fifty, and took one hundred and fifty-seven prisoners, exclusive of
seven officers of superior rank.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 485
counts but what he was sure would be allowed to him in the general
account.
The officers can not have too high a sense of your exertions in
their favor, and it gives me a very sincere pleasure that you find
the gentlemen in public business so readily concur with you, and
that the spirit of animosity is not so great as it once appeared to be.
Time must wear off the sharp edges, and I fondly flatter myself t i
see all parties so mellowed down as with cordial unanimity to purs...
the public interest, which has, without doubt, in some instances,
been left out of sight. Parties may, indeed I believe not, exist in
every free State, but when the public good is the principal aim of
both, they will not produce private enmity.
In conversation, yesterday, with Colonel Moylan, his regiment came
upon the carpet. A resolve of Congress seems to have had in view
that the regiments of horse that have been raised in particular States
should be considered as part of their quota in the Continental army.
He would be very happy to find himself in that situation, and
though the officers have- not all been taken from Pennsylvania, the
men were, I believe, all raised there. I will be obliged to you if
you will please to communicate your sentiments on that head.
I have very frequent applications for orders to the commissary, in
different parts of Pennsylvania, to issue provisions to the wives and
families of soldiers, who have left them behind, and are, as they
say, starving. It is really a very hard case, but I do not consider
myself as authorized to give any such orders. Something, how
ever, should be done for them, and 1 am told that all the women of
Colonel Proctor's regiment draw provisions in Philadelphia. . .
I received, last week, two letters from Colonel Nichols, inclosing
the attestations of six recruits, but two of them only are come on,
the others having deserted on their way to camp. This is really
paying very dear for soldiers, and some other way should be fallen
upon than sending them on with small parties of two or three men,
who can not pay the attention that is necessary to prevent deser
tions. Perhaps it would be well enough to allow th'em to do duty
in the Invalids until a sufficient number is collected, and then an
officer with a proper party might be sent from camp to bring them
on. Mr. Gibbons arrived a day or two ago, and is now on trial be
fore a general court-martial.1
1 President Reed replied to the above letter on the 5th September. He ap
proved of St. Clair's suggestion as to the proper manner of supplying money
to regiments; did not think he could do anything for Colonel Moylan ;the
issuing of supplies to the wives of soldiers would be attended with many
486 The St. Clair Papers.
General St. Clatr to General Washington.1
West Point, October 4, 1779.
Sir : —I have been revolving in my mind the matters your Ex
cellency had under consideration last night, and beg leave to submit
my sentiments upon them ; but they are only broken hints, as I
have a very imperfect knowledge of the locality, not having been
upon the grounds for many years, and then not having viewed
them in a military light.
From Fort Washington to the high grounds at the bottom of the
Bay, below Harlem River, is a front to that river of three miles, at
no part more than two miles from the North River. Our troops,
drawing down toward King's Bridge, would probably induce the
enemy to take this position. •
About six miles below Fort Washington, a bay makes in from
the North River, from the bottom of which, across the island to the
East River, the distance is one mile only. Supposing the enemy
obliged to change their first position, this would probably be their
second, as it has these advantages, that, be our superiority in num
bers what it may, they can present an equal front, neither flank can
be turned, and, in so short a line, great obstacles can be immediately
thrown in the way. But, query: Whether their left flunk would
not be exposed to the fire of the ships from the North River with
the enemy in the first position, as above described. The difficulties
in the way make this less eligible than first supposed. In the
second, it appears very eligible, as the distance across is, I believe,
very capable of defense, and they would thereby be cut off from the
town,, where, doubtless, the stores of all kinds arc deposited; but
unless it was made with perfect secrecy, the attempt would proba
bly prove abortive.
Drawing the troops to King's Bridge and Harlem River would
certainly induce the first position, as it promises to be effectual, for
inconveniences. "There are such demands for every species of woman's
woik that no industrious woman can suffer. In special cases assistance is
given them. I believe Colonel Proctor, who is very ingenious in that way,
did get some rations issued to women belonging to that regiment, but when
it was discovered it was stopped. Relief may be granted in particular cases,
but it would never do to consent to it as a general system."
1 These hints as to plan of campaign were based upon the supposition that
Count D'Estaing would force his way into tho North River, and offered at
the request of General Washington.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 487
preventing the passage of that river, and, from its contiguity to the
North River is also convenient for preventing a landing in the rear.
A landing on Long Island, it seems, may be easily effected from
Harlem River, either above or below the mouth of it, and the col
lecting of boats there would not discover the real design, as they
are equally necessary in either case. Flushing, the same distance
above, is a very convenient place, if not occupied by the enemy. It
is four miles from thence to Jamaica, and eight from that to Bed
ford, where there is a capital pass, which should be instantly pos
sessed, otherwise the army would be obliged to make a considerable
circuit by New York to approach Brooklyn. It is an open country,
and good roads from Flushing to Bedford.
The Count D'Estaing can land his troops anywhere upon the
southern coast of Long Island—Jamaica Bay, for instance—whence
a junction could easily be made near Bedford. The distance, I
think, is not more than eight miles.
The ships may certainly be destroyed from Long Island, as they
must run into the East River, and the post at Brooklyn will soon
fall. With these New York, be its garrison what it will, must fall
also. This appears to me the most eligible method, as there is great
probability of success, and much less risk than in forcing a passage
over Harlem River, or landing on the island by the North River, in
either of which the fate of America must, in a great measure, be set
upon a single cast.
When once established upon Long Island, perhaps a sufficient
number of troops may be spared to reduce Rhode Island.
If the posts on the North River are not drawn in, I suppose two
thousand men might,- in a week, with a proper artillery, reduce
Stony Point without breaking in much upon the greater operations
of the army. Verplanck must follow immediately.
These hints are all founded on a supposition that we can deceive
the enemy, and throw ourselves on Long Island, whilst the gross of
their army remains upon York Island ; but it is not improbable that
they will betake themselves entirely to Long Island, in which case
the high grounds, according to the idea I retain of them, from Flat
Bush to Bedford to the East River, would be a good position.
488 The St. Clair Papers.
General St. Clair to President Reed.
Camp, October 10th, 1779.
Dear Sir:— ... I have heard with much pain of the un
happy disasters that have prevailed in town,1 but have not been able
to divine the cause. It surprises me exceedingly that Mr. Wilson
could have been pointed out as an enemy to his country, as his con
duct has, from a very early period, been uniformly friendly, although
his opposition to the Constitution of Pennsylvania has been, per
haps, too warm. His advocating the causes of the accused persons
should certainly not have been considered as a crime, as it is both a
part and a consequence of that liberty we have been struggling to
establish. I am pleased, however, that your spirited conduct in
quelling the riot meets with general approbation, and that you were
happy enough to rescue that gentleman, as it was pretty generally
known that you were not upon the most friendly terms.
May I hope that it will have the effect to remove any coolness
that subsisted ? If I could see you perfect friends, I should be very
happy; for I know his worth, and would spare no pains in my
power to bring it about. But I have said enough of this, and per
haps too much.
1 This refers to "The Fort Wilson Riot," which disgraced Philadelphia,
October 4, 1779, and which is traceable to two causes, viz.: (1) The extor
tions growing out of tha depreciation of the currency; and (2) the violence
of party feeling between the Constitutionists and Anti-C'onstitutionists.
Most of the Continental soldiers in the Pennsylvania line, with St. Clair at
their head, were of the latter party in sentiment, but supported the Consti
tution and Government under it during the war. Leadmg civilians, their
friends, were of the same opinion, which was publicly expressed by HonEdward
Uiddle: "Our present Government is lamentably defective, and
has in it the seeds of the worst of tyrannies, but to attempt by force to over
turn it, would in my judgment be wicked, as well as impolitic.'' Congress
and the Stales attempted to mend the difficulties—high prices, the oppres
sions and the frauds—incident to a paper currency born of revolution, by
laws to govern prices and punish engrossers. Washington himself had been
moved to indulge in very passionate language. He rejoiced that Pennsyl
vania proposed to bring the murderers of the patriotic cause, the monop
olizers, forestalled, and engrossers, to condign punishment. "I would to
God," said he, " that some one of the more atrocious in each State was hung
in gibbets upon a gallows live times as high as the one prepared by Haman.
No punishment, in my opinion, is too severe for the man who can build his
greatness upon his country's ruin." But despite such legislation, which
really defeated the end sought to b" accomplished by mailing victims of the
conscientious and allowing rascals to escape, paper continued to depreciato
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 489
General St. Clair to General Washington.
Camp at Totowa, November 2d, 1779.
Sir:—In cantoning the troops, there are two objects which seem
to claim particular attention—the securing West Point and coverand
prices to rise. The popular excitement in Pennsylvania became intense,
and a self-constituted committee of citizens of Philadelphia, attempted to
regulate the prices of salt, sugar, coffee, flour, and other staple articles, to
which regulation Robert Morris and other leading merchants refused to con
form. In this they were sustained by Hon. James Wilson, the eminent
citizen who, as a signer of the Declaration of Independence, and member
of Congress, had been foremost in the cause of the Colonies. This seemed
to incense the party seeking to control the sales of articles of consumption,
beyond all bounds, us it was the second time he had stood in their path.
When they had attempted to drive out the wives and children of the Loy
alists, and caused the indictment of persons suspected of sympathizing with
the British when they occupied Philadelphia, Mr. Wilson had, with true
courage, stood forth as their defender in the Court; and, although they suc
ceeded in having two Quakers executed, he secured the release of twentythree
other suspects. They were now resolved on having revenge on Mr.
Wilson, and all others who had reprobated their course.
Several hundred militia assembled on the 4th of October, with arms in
their hands, and after participating in a violent meeting, paraded the streets.
It was whispered about that they intended to seize Mr. Wilson, and they
marched, for that purpose, to the City Tavern, expecting to find him and his
friends there. Disappointed in this, they moved towards his residence, sit
uated at the south-west corner of Third and Walnut streets, under the lead
of two desperate characters—Bonham and Pickering. Friends of Mr. Wil
son, including General Mifflin, General Thompson, Captain Campbell, and
other Continental officers and friends, to the number of thirty or forty, hud
gone to Mr. Wilson's house to defend it. They were all armed. The mob
approached, with drums beating, and dragging two pieces of cannon, in a
very threatening manner. There is a conflict of testimony here—one ac
count saying that as the mob was passing the heuse, Cuptain Campbell (a
one-armed veteran of Hazen's regiment), lired a pistol at them through an
open window; and others, thut the mob fired upon the house, and that the
defenders responded. Captain Campbell, ir. the house, and an unknown per
son on the street, were killed. The mob forced a door on the Third street
side, but as they entered were met with a well-directed fire, which dropped
several of them. At this point, President Reed appeared, followed by Major
David Lenon,1 at the head of a detachment of the City Troop, and succeeded
in dispersing the mob. Arrests were made on both sides, but there were no
prosecutions, as the Assembly passed an uct of free and general pardon.
After this, party contests were less violent.
1 Major David Lenon, a gallant, patriotic, nnd useful soldier of the Revolution, u
citizen of Philadelphia, from 1784 to 1786 a partner of General St. Clair, in mercan
tile operations, and at the time of his death, in 1828, President of the Pennsylvania
Society of Cincinnati.
490 The St. Clair Papers.
ing Jersey in such a manner as to preserve an easy communication
with Pennsylvania. But West Point requires two thousand eight
hundred men, and, for the Northern posts dependent on it and the
necessary detachments below, a thousand more will not be an extrav
agant allowance. I will suppose, then, that the army may be can
toned to answer these purposes in this manner : The corps at West
Point to remain there, and those under your Excellency's immedi
ate command to take post in Jersey. But of the first, there will,
on the first day of January remain little more than three thousand
men ; and, of the last, about two thousand four hundred. Should
those posted in Jersey be in the vicinity of the enemy, they would
be liable to have their quarters beat up ; they would probably have
a new position to take, which may be very difficult in the winter
season, and be exposed to the loss of their baggage and artillery,
as it will not be possible to maintain the horses at the army. Should
they be removed to any considerable distance, in order to place
them in greater security, they could not answer the purpose of cov
ering the country. It is not probable that many recruits will have
arrived by the first of January, be the measures of the States ever
•so decisive—a part, however, of the quotas of Pennsylvania and
Connecticut may, perhaps, be counted on, which is all, I appre
hend, may be expected before the month of March, at soonest.
Should the troops be posted in the upper part of Jersey, or in the
vicinity of West Point, the most valuable part of that State will be
left entirely open to the enemy, the communication with Pennsyl
vania become more difficult, the carriage be greatly increased
through a rough country, and where forage is not abundant. Diffi
culties present themselves on all sides ; but, on the whole, I think
some middle station should be chosen, in Jersey, so situated as to be
within a few hours' forced march, with light troops, of the Newark
Mountain, which appears to me a barrier of considerable impoitauce
; but I have not a sufficient local knowledge to be able to
point out a particular place. There will be a time when the army
there, supposing that disposition should be thought proper, will be
very weak ; but then a body of the militia might be called out,
which would not much interfere with their filling their battalions,
as the number of men they would want is not considerable, and,
from the season, not at all with the affairs of husbandry. With
them joined to the troops, there would be no great danger of any
serious attempt from the enemy, from the distance they would have
to penetrate into the country, and the difficulty of a retreat in case
of misfortune.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 491
But at West Point there are only the number of men necessary
merely for the works, and, therefore, not a sufficient number for its de
fense, should it be attempted in any other way than by acoupe de main.
It is not, however, probable that the enemy will sit down before it
in the winter season, and, should that be their design, it must be
discovered in time enough to throw in a reinforcement, and part of
the York militia might also be called out without impeding the re
cruiting service, as their battalion are near complete.
On one hand the ease and comfort of the troops require their
being cantoned as soon as possible ; that their huts may be con
structed before the severity of the winter sets in ; more especially
when we reflect upon the state of their clothing. On the other,
until the winter is at least so far advanced as to preclude the possi
bility of an attempt upon West Point. But a serious attempt upon
West Point, as I observed before, requires such previous prepara
tion as can not well be concealed, and a body, I should suppose, of
at least eight thousand men, and both sides of the river must be
occupied, so that the probability is against its being made in the
winter, when their communication with New York by water must
be precarious. There is no probability at all of their marching to
it, as the means of transporting the apparatus for siege, and the nec
essary provisions are not, I believe, within their power. I should,
therefore, think that in a fortnight hence the camp may be broken
up; but this wili be, in some measure, governed by the weather.
After all, it must be owned that, should the enemy bend their
force against the army I have supposed in Jersey, it would be a haz
ardous situation ; but, as they have discovered no inclination to at
tempt any thing of that kind since the detachments have been made
from this army, and, whilst the season was favorable to military
operations, it induces an expectation that they will not be more en
terprising, on great scale, at least, during the winter.1
I am most clearly of opinion that no troops can be spared, at this
time, for the southward ; neither do I see any offensive operation
1The above observations were called for by General Washington, and in
the disposition of the army for the winter, and the design upon Stuten
Island, were fully approved by the Commander-in-Chief. K was proposed
to quarter the cavalry in Connecticut, station a brigade at Danbury, a suf
ficient garrison at West Point, including the post at King's Ferry and Con
tinental Village, a small body of troops at the entrance of the Clove, and
the main body of the army in the country in the neighborhood of the Scotch
Plains. Washington's headquarters were fixed at Morristowu.
See letter to President of Congress, 24th November.
492 The St. Clair Papers.
that can be undertaken with much likelihood of success. It ap
pears, indeed, to me, that we have but one object—Staten Island—
the garrisons of which are most probably reinforced.
General St. Clair to Brigadier-General Irvine.
Mt. Loes, Nov. 2Ath, 1779.—2 o'clock.
Dear Sir :—I have met with Mr. Abcel here and he informs me
that our position will not be determined until he has had a meeting
with General Greene, which he expects this .evening, so that, in all
probability, we shall keep our present station to-morrow at least.
There arc provisions at Morristown which he would send on to us.
but as the commissary's wagons are broken down (the wheels i
mean) if you please to order them on to that place, he will give
them new wagons, which they can load back with the provision.
If any thing else occurs, I shall give early notice.
President Reed to General St. Clair.
Philadelphia, Dec. 9th, 1779.
Dear Sir : —Your favor of the 3d inst. is now before mc. The
delicacy of giving any direction." with respect to the clothing, which
might in any respect interfere with the views of the General, in
duced us to submit it entirely to .his direction. In future we shall
be on a more certain footing.
Your wishes to see harmony and good agreement prevail in time
of public calamity, do honor to the goodness of your own heart.
And I hope that, notwithstanding some unfavorable appearances,
it may in due time be accomplished. I assure you I shall be so far
from declining any overtures of that nature, that I shall cheerfully
meet them. Mr. Wilson's understanding and abilities will always
make him respectable, if he does not devote them too far to the
purposes of party. He is one whom no man would choose to wish
for an enemy, and I believe it entirely depends on himself to increase
the number of his friends.
When, as I hope is the case with us, party has not rankled into
personal enmity, I flatter myself civility and society may be re stored. Time• and mutual good dispositions alone can effect it.
It is a great satisfaction to see harmony so prevailing in the mili
Correspondence, Addresses, HJlc. 493
tary line. God grant it may continue and increase. Perhaps the
influence of example may reach us.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
Morristown, '21th January, 1780.
Dear Sir : —You will be pleased to repair to our Hues and inves
tigate the causes of the late misfortune and disgrace at ElizabethL'i\vn,
and report your opinion thereupon, as soon as inquiry is made.1
You will also examine into the state of our guards, and see if any
change can be made in their position for the better ; having respect,
as far as present circumstances will allow, to the object in view,
which are security to this camp, cover to the country near the en
emy's lines, and prevention of that injurious and abominable traffic,
which is carried on with the city of New York. While you are in
the discharge of this duty, it is my'wish that you would obtain, in
as unsuspected a manner as possible, a perfect knowledge of the
enemy's strength, situation, and guards on Staten Island and at
Paulus Hook, the state of the ice on the North River, anrl such
other information as it may be beneficial and important for us to be
1 A detachment of British troops, commanded by Lieutenant-Colonel
Bushkirk, crossed over from Statun Island at Trembley's Point, and entered
Elizabethtown between eleven and twelvo o'clock, on the night of the 25th
of January. It consisted of one hundred dragoons, and between three and
four hundred infantry. They took several prisoners, burnt the meeting
house, town-house, and another building, plundered some of the inhabitants,
and retired without loss. A similar attack was made at the same time on a
small party at Newark, and with equal success. The academy was burnt.
In both places the surprise was complete. The whole number of prisoners
taken from the Americans was four officers, and about sixty privates.—
Colonel Hazen's MS. Letter, January 6th.
On the same day the above letter was written, General Washington in
formed Colonel Hazen that General St. Clair would go down in the morning
to make an inquiry, and endeavor to find out if it would be possible to re
taliate on the enemy; and, if not, if some different position of the grounds
might not be necessary. He theught enterprises by small parties practicable,
but the strength of the enemy would render too hazardous any thing more
extensive. Since the North River was passable, he had theught it practica
ble to carry out the plan of Colonel Willett, for burning the enemy's trans
ports, which wore supposed to be frozen in the ice at Turtle Hay. Inquiry
was to be made as to the fact of the boats being frozen up, first. If, then,
Colonel Willett should choose to undertake it, he was to be indulged, and
Washington recommended the selection of Webb's regiment, the men of
which were clothed in red, as well calculated for such an enterprise.
494 The St. Clair Papers.
acquainted with. It is my wish, also, that you may obtain a com
plete knowledge of the places and manner in which the enemy's
shipping, flat-boats, and other craft are laid up and secured, thereby
discovering whether some successful attempt, by stratagem or other
wise, may not be made to destroy them. The relief which went
down to the detachment under the command of Colonel Hazen,
when joined thereto, will form a body of two thousand rank and
file; and as there were reasons for apprehending that the enemy
had some offensive plan in view, which actually took place that
very night, I ordered Colonel Hazen to remain there with his com
mand a few days, or till further orders. You will please to take
command of both detachments, and retain the old till the objects
here enumerated are fulfilled, unless you should think best to order
the return of it to camp before. If, in the course of your tour of
duty below, and investigation of the enemy's posts, any operation
upon a large or small scale presents itself, you will delay no time
in communicating your ideas fully on the subject to me, provided,
in the latter instance, a favorable opportunity is not lost by delay,
in which case you are left altogether to your own discretion, bearing
in mind always that new disappointments will add discredit to our
arms. But, while the state of the ice admits a free and easy pas
sage of troops from New York, any attempt otherwise than by sur
prise may be dangerous.
General St. Clair to General Washington.
Crane's Mills, January 28, 1780.
Sir :—I arrived at Colonel Hazen's quarters the night before last,
and yesterday, with him, visited the several posts, which I found to
be llahway, Crane's Mills, Connecticut Farms, Elizabethtown, and
Newark. Elizabethtown and Newark are occupied by small de
tachments only, and guards are posted at De Hart's and Halsted
Points. A small guard is also kept at the New Blazing Star from
the post at Rahway.
In this situation the troops are as compact as, I believe, the nature
of the cantonment will allow consistently with the objects in view ;
yet they are far from being so much so as could be wished. The dis
tance these different places lie from one another, and want of horse to
communicate speedily any movements of the enemy, render it very
easy to surprise one or other of the posts, particularly Rahway,
which is only two miles from the Sound, and lies five miles from
hence and five miles from the Blazing Star. The small detached
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 49o
guara at that place may be very easily taken off; and then their
flank, and even their rear, is entirely open.
To cover effectually such an extent of country as from Newark to
Amboy, in the present state of the ice, would require a very con
siderable body of troops ; and the dispersing them in small bodies,
exposes them to many accidents, and greatly favors desertion, which,
with much regret, I find has prevailed in these commands.
In Elizabethtown, I found a four days' guard, consisting of one
hundred men, with a field officer. This I reduced to a captain and
fifty, to be relieved daily, which I thought would answer every pur
pose that could be expected from the hundred, as they may, when
on for one day only, be kept constantly alert, and half of them at a
time patroling during the night. Indeed, I believe good patrols
would answer every purpose better than small guards ; but, where
the distance betwixt posts is considerable, they should be composed
of horse. The guards at De Hart's and Halsted Points are cer
tainly much exposed, and if the enemy suffer them to remain, it
must arise from extreme caution, or their having something of more
importance in contemplation, for I can not suppose they want in
formation of our position.
I have not yet been able to ascertain the enemy's number on
Staten Island, or at Paulus Hook, but expect to-day to have pretty
good accounts of the last, as also of the state of the ice on both the
North and East Rivers ; but from all that I can learn, and from the
intelligence Colonel Hazen has received, their numbers on the Is
land amount to two thousand and upwards. The reinforcement
thrown in from New York consisted of three regiments—supposed
about seven or eight hundred men ; part of them are cantoned, and
part encamped about the middle of the island. Intelligence is,
however, very difficult to be obtained, and is not, in my opinion, in
a good train ; the person who seems to be most defended upon bear
ing a very bad character, and known to act as an agent for the
enemy. Indeed, it will be almost impossible to get it into another
train, unless the intercourse betwixt the inhabitants and the island
can be prevented ; nor can a stop be put to the traffic carried on
with the city, unless some other way of rewarding those we employ
be fallen upon than countenancing it in their favor.
Nothing has yet presented itself to induce any attempt upon the
enemy, which should at least have probability in its favor. Their
advanced picket at Dungan's Mills might be taken off, but it is a
trifling object, and the retreat of the party might be prevented. If
any thing is to be done on the island, it must, I believe, be by open
496 The St. Clair Papers.
force, which they seem to expect, as, from the information of a de
serter, they are improving their works and adding abatis, and keep
their troops as close to them as possible. They are also constructing
a new work, with timbers, on a hill that commands the redoubt at
the Watering Place. There is at present a passage to New York,
but it is frequently interrupted by the driving ice.
Dr. Burnet expected a trusty, intelligent person from New York
last night, and I shall see him to-day. By him, I expect the inform
ation your Excellency wishes with respect to the East River, and
the situation of the enemy's vessels. If it favors Colonel Willet's
enterprise, I shall desire him to wait upon your Excellency imme
diately. I find, by an order of Gen. Tryon's of the 13th, that a
number of bateaux are to be laid up at De Nuys's Ferry, at the
Narrows.
I suppose Colonel Hazen has informed your Excellency of the at
tempt the enemy intended upon the detachment at Rahway on
Wednesday last, which was prevented by Colonel Gray's obtaining
some notice of it. I can not help repeating that horse are much
wanted to give any degree of security to the cantonments ; but, a
one object is to cover and secure the inhabitants, they ought, some
of them at least, to be furnished by the State, and if these were
trusty, good men, acquainted with the country, they would make
the best patrols possible. I believe, too, they would more effectually
check the spirit of traffic than it will ever be done by the soldiery,
who hold it, in some measure, a disreputable employment.
, I wish I could give your Excellency any hint that might help to
check or prevent the shameful desertion that prevails, and for which
the troops of Pennsylvania, especially, have so little reason. It
would, perhaps, answer a good cud, while the ice continues firm, in
stead of detachments from the army, to send whole corps ; the first
to be taken from those lines where that vice has not crept in. By
the time one or two commands are completed, the communication
will probably be more difficult.
I have inquired of every person I thought could give me proper
information into the causes of our misfortune at Elizabethtown and
Newark, and it appears to have been owing to negligence in not
having the patrols out in proper time, and to their having fatigued
. themselves too much the night before ; and it is certain that the
captain had not a single vidctte, nor even a sentry, on the stable
where his horses were.
I am not quite satisfied whether your Excellency intended a
formal inquiry, or that I should inform myself in the manner I
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 497
have done. Nothing further occurs at present. If any intelligence
of moment arises, it shall be immediately communicated; and I
will detain Colonel Hazen until I hear from your Excellency.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
Morristown, January 29, 1780.
Dear Sir:—You will be pleased to forward the inclosed letter by
flag. It is from a Mr. Ranselair, who comes particularly recom
mended by General Schuyler. As he is iminitient for an answer, as
soon as one reaches you, I wish to have it sent up by express.
I want to be informed in what manner the troops are accommo
dated as to quarters, or whether any part of them are put to incon
venience on this account. I shall be somewhat influenced by this
circumstance as to the continuing or recalling the detachment which
went down under Colonel Hazen.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
Morristown, February 2, 1780.
Dear Sir :—I am this moment favored with your letter of this
date.
The detachment which I mentioned as to march this morning,
owing to some causes that have unavoidably intervened, does not
leave camp till to-morrow.
With regard to the enterprise you have in view, should circum
stances make it eligible in your opinion, I have no objection to your
trying the experiment.1
General Washington to General St. Clair.
Headquarters, February 2, 1780.
Dear Sir:—I have received your second letter- of this date. As
I wrote you this forenoon, I leave the enterprise in view entirely
with you, and the execution to be attempted or not as you may
1 As the letter of St. Clair to which the above refers is missing, it is im
possible to tell the nature of the information he had received,* and the enter
prise he designed based upon it. The probability is that it was to be an
attempt to surprise some post of the enemy. The letter of St. Clair to
"Washington, February 7, may give a clue to the design.
2 Missing. 32
498 The St. Clair Papers.
judge proper from a full consideration of all circumstances, the in
telligence you have received, aud the characters of the persons who
gave it. If it should appear to you that there is a strong probability
of its succeeding, the experiment can be made; if not, it may
be best not to undertake it.
The dragoon has two or three bundles of prepared combustibles
in charge, and some post funds.
General St. Clair to General Washington.
Crane's Mills, February 7, 1780.
Dear Sir : — Nothing extraordinary has happened since my last,
neither have I received any intelligence of consequence, my man
from New York not yet being returned ; I expect to see or hear
from him this evening. —It is said that in consequence of the report
of some deserters who got into Paulus Hook from Connecticut
Farms, the day before the detachment was relieved, that post is re
inforced every evening from New York. If this be true, which I
hope to ascertain to-day, a stroke may be made upon them. The
country was very much alarmed yesterday by the appearance of a
party aud a number of sleighs on the sound. The rejwrt readied
me as I was on my return from Woodbridge, with the addition that
they were actually landed and in Elizabethtown, which occasioned
the troops to be got under arms that were nearest. It proved to be
a party from New York, most probably carrying provisions; they
came on the ice at Bergen Point, passed up towards De Hart's
Point, about half way; and then turned off and lauded near
Deckers, on Staten Island. The sleighs were in number about one
hundred, aud the escort consisted of about sixty infantry and
twenty horses.
I have made some alteration in the disposition of the canton
ments. The body of the troops now lie in a line from Springfield to
the southern part of Westfield, with one hundred and twenty men
advanced to Connecticut Farms, and the same number in this
neighborhood; fifty men detached to Newark, and fifty to Woodbridge.
The different parties of mounted militia are instructed to
patrol the roads along the sound from Newark to Amboy; fifteen
of them are stationed at Newark, fifteen at Rahway, aud fifteen
at Woodbridge. These are a kind of volunteers who depend upon
the Legislature for a reasonable compensation for their services.
As the people came very readily into this mode, and discovered
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 499
an unwillingness to engage in any other way, I declined raising the
twenty your Excellency had empowered me, and if these forty-five,
in the manner they are stationed, will do their duty, there is little
doubt but that, with the assistance of our foot patrols, every move
ment of the enemy will be timely discovered.
A son of Mr. Iladden, who was lately made prisoner at Newark,
waited upon me yesterday with a request from Mrs. Haddeu, who
has your Excellency's permission to go to New York, that your Ex
cellency would allow her to pass by Paulus Hook. I promised him
to mention it, and I believe there is no doubt but flags will be re
ceived there. Major Skinner went in that way, and a flag came
from thence the day before yesterday with a letter for him, and by
opening that comnsuciriition, some useful observations may, per
haps, be made.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
Morristown, 8th February, 1780.
Dear Sir:—I received your favor of the 7th yesterday afternoon.
As I can see no inconveuiency from permitting Mrs. Hadden to
pass in by Paulus Hook, you will, therefore, grant her request ; and
make such further use of that communication in the way of flags,
while the frost continues, as you may judge essential for any pur
poses you may have in view, or for obtaining useful information.
I would imagine, however, that the enemy will object to this line,
for the same reasons which we may desire it.
I have no objection to Kemp and Crane going over to Kingston;
you may, therefore, indulge the friends of the persons who were
lately taken in their application.
General St. Clair to General -Washington.
Springfield, February lWi, 1780.
Sir:—The enemy made an incursion into this State this morning,
about au hour before day, in three different places from Staten
Island, and one from Paulus Hook.
A party of about three hundred, commanded by Colonel Simcoe,
landed at Woodhridge, a small party on Rahway Neck, and the most
considerable body at De Hart's Point, and marched to Elizabethtown.
The guards at Elizabethtown and Woodbridge were timely ap
prised of their approach, and retreated to some little distance from
500 The St. Clair Papers.
both these posts, and were not attacked, and have sustained no other
loss than having each one man wounded.
I have not been able to ascertain the force of the party that came
to Elizabethtown. The two persons that were made prisoners
there seem entirely ignorant of it, and had followed the troops in
order to plunder. Their numbers are said to have been two thous
and, which id improbable; but from General Sterling and General
Skinner, both being [unintelligible], they must have been consid
erable. A number of houses in the town have been stripped of every
thing, and ten or twelve of the inhabitants carried off.
The party at Woodbridge committed no outrage of any kind upon
either the persons or houses of the inhabitants, but carried off about
thirty head of cattle. Their principal aim seems to have been the
guard, and, missing of that, they stayed a very short time. On
their retreat they were followed by the horse patrols, some of the
militia, and the troops, who say they wounded several, but none
were left on the ground. The party that landed at Rahway, in a
very obscure place, plundered two houses and carried off two men,
and seemed to have had no other object. But the surprising a
party of fifty men seemed too trifling to have been the design of so
large a party as that at Elizabethtown. Whatever it may have
been, the finding the guard so alert probably induced them to de
sist. The party from Paulus Hook consisted of about three hun
dred horse, and lauded at Hnckeusack. The person I had sent to
New York, and who had been detained at Paulus Hook in conse
quence of orders the day before, to suffer no person to go out, came
over with them.
They proceeded some distance into the country, and from the route
they pursued, he thinks, intended to have passed the Cedar Swamp,
and were very particular in their inquiries about the situation of
your quarters, and where I was quartered, and the guards that were
posted between Hackensack and Morristown. He says particularly
that, after marching some way into the country, he heard an officer
ask the commandant where they were going. He replied he could
not tell him that, but they had more than thirty miles to march that
night; that in a short time after this, finding the snow very deep
aud the roads not broken, they returned, and he was dismissed.
If their design was nn attempt on your Excellency's quarters, the
other party's were intended to divert our attention from that party
of horse that were to have marched upon our left flank, and I hope
you will pardon me for hinting that there is not a sufficient body of
troops near enough to render you secure. Had they been designed
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 501
to have fallen upon our rear, which they might have done, they had
troops enough to have given us full occupation, and them the op
portunity- Hut supposing cither of these designs, it is difficult to
account for their retiring so soon, without even attacking the Elizabcthtown
guard, which was not above a quarter of a mile out of
town.
The person from New York, says that the East River is still open;
and, in general, gives the same account of the situation of the ship
ping guards and quarters of the general officers as I had the honor
to transmit to your Excellency in a former letter. His account of
Pnulus Hook is an accurate one. It consists of a pretty large re
doubt, with a smaller one within it, capable of containing about one
hundred and fifty. The barracks about ten rods without the works,
abatised to the landside ; but not to the water, and not one piece
of cannon planted that way. The garrison consists of about six
hundred men, from which they detach daily a sergeant's guard to
the Green Island, about a mile from the Hook, and lower down the
river; and that they have ceased to send the reinforcements I men
tioned before for some days.
I have bad no authentic intelligence from Rtaten Island for some
days, and, indeed, it is very difficult to obtain.
The inhabitants in general cry out so much against Morris Hat
field that I have not employed him, and they are all afraid of being
detected by his brothers on the Island. I expect, however, to hear
from there by to-morrow night, and if it is of consequence, will
transmit it immediately to your Excellency. I still think Buskirk's
corps may be taken off.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
Headquarters, Morristown, V2th Feb., 1780.
Dear Sir:—I received yours of yesterday late last night. lam
pleased to find that the vigilance of your guards and patrols disap
pointed the enemy, whatever might have been their intentions. I
have taken precautions to guard against an attempt by such a party
as might be reasonably supposed to be able to reach this in the
course of a night, and I hope that a short continuance of this
weather will make the ice impassable by horse ; from foot, there is
no danger at this distance.
If you still think an attempt upon Buskirk's corps practicable,
you are at full liberty to try the experiment. I am confident you
502 The St. Clair Papers.
will undertake nothing but what will be justified by appearances
and a probability of success.
P. S. As the enemy have made an incursion with their horse by
the way of Hackensack, will it not be prudent in you to extend your
patrols of horse more to your left while the ice is passable ? When
ever persons apply for liberty to go within the enemy's line, having
the permission of the Executive of any of the States, Congress, or
the Board of War, you may suffer them to pass without an applica
tion to me.
General St. Clair to General Washington.
SrRinGFieLD, Feb. 20, 1780.
Sir:—The enemy made another attempt last night, alxnit eleven
o'clock, to surprise the party at Newark, and plunder the town, but,
being happily discovered on their approach by the patrols, the guard
and the inhabitants were alarmed, and obliged them to retire with
out their effecting any thing except carrying off two men, one of
whom is supposed to have purposely thrown himself in their way.
There was some firing betwixt their advance and the patrols, but
without loss on our side, or, I believe, on theirs, though it is said
that some of them were wounded.
The guard retired to a height in the rear of the town, until they
discovered the strength of the party, which consisted of about one
hundred foot, when, being joined by the inhabitants, they moved
down to attack them.
The enemy immediately retired, and were pursued to the river,
where they were obliged to quit about twenty head of cattle they
had collected, and some horses, and I hear of nothing missing but
one sheep and an old horse.
The ice still remains passable, both in Hackensack and Second
Rivers, and in Newark Bay, and the Sound, but with some diffieultv,
there being many places, particularly in the Bay and Sound, that
will support very little weight.
I believe the North River, though still fast, will not admit the
passage of troops. Whilst they remain in that situation, perhaps
the post at Faulus Hook might be attempted with probable success,
as, from the intelligence I have, they are not very vigilant there ; the
garrison does not now exceed five hundred men, and, if I am rightly
informed, the place is entirely open to the North River. I think
there is no doubt but that the ice njxm the Flats will be strong
enough for some time, unless the weather should alter, and guides
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 503
may be procured to conduct a proper party clear of the inhabitants.
The detachment here might be sufficient, for, if it is carried, it
might be by surprise, and, in that case, numbers are of no great
avail. I have not yet, however, such information as to enable me to
digest a plan of attack, but am in hopes to receive it to-night, and
shall immediately communicate it to your Excellency.
There is not much time to lose, but the critical moment is that in
which the ice is sufficiently strong along shore, when it is too weak
in the North and Sound.
General "Washington to General St. Clair.
Morristown, February 23, 1780. —Half-past 10 a. M.
Sir :—I have this moment received yours 1 of seven o'clock. I
apprehend, with you, that the circumstances you mention will pre
vent the execution of your project ; for which reason, and the bad
ness of the weather, I delay the march of the covering party till I
hear further from you. If the intelligence you expect proves favor
able, I shall be obliged to you to dispatch a second messenger, and
I will take measures here accordingly.2
P. S. Will not the state of the moon be unfriendly to your at
tempt towards morning ?
General Washington to General St. Clair and Lieuten
ant-Colonels Edward Carbington and Alexander HamILTON.^
Morristown, 8th March, 1780.
Gentlemen:—The powers herewith authorize you to proceed to
Amboy, on the 9th instant, to meet commissioners on the part of
the enemy, for the purpose of settling a general cartel. You will
perceive what has been already done in this business by the papers
1 Missing.
2General St. Clair ordered Colonel Sherman to assemble his brigade fit
Westfield, on the evening of the28d, whence he was to march to Springfield, so
as to arrive there at eight o'eloek; all ot the guards were to be called in except
those at Rahway and Woodbridge; the men were to be marched completely
equipped, but without their packs, and each man was to be furnished with a
gill of rum. These orders were carried out, but the enterprise had to bo
abandoned at the last moment, on account of its having been ascertained
that the enemy had been apprised of the intended movement, and was pre
pared.
604 St. Clair Papers.
accompanying this. The only instructions I have to give you arc
these: That you transact nothing under your commission but upon
principles of perfect equality and on a national ground. If the en
emy will not treat with you on this footing, you will put an end to
the negotiations. But, after your official business is over, I wish
you, in private conversation, to enter into a discussion of the pro
posals, so as to remove any difficulties they contain, and prepare
the way for some future particular agreement, which may give re
lief to our officers and men in captivity.
If you enter into a general cartel, you must of necessity include
the southern prisoners; but, if you are obliged to confine yourselves
to what I now recommend, you will avoid including them. The
proposals appear to me generally liberal, though, in some respects,
exceptionable. The tariff, however, is moderate enough. Having
entire confidence in your judgment and discretion, I think, it un
necessary to enter into a detail of the exceptionable parts ; persuaded
that they will readily occur to you, and that you will take proper
steps to have them amended. The settlement of accounts id a
point of importance and difficulty. As tho matter now stands, I am
unable to give you any explicit directions on the subject. If 3-011 are
likely to enter into a general cartel, you will immediately advise me,
and I will obtain further instructions from Congress. If this is not
tho case, you will hardly be able to draw any engagements from the
enemy on this head, and you will perceive this point is not to bo made
a preliminary nor ultimatum. You will do the best you can, en
deavoring, by all means, to engage the British Commissioners to ad
vance a sufficient sum of money to pay the debts of our officers for
board and the like, and enable them to leave their captivity. You
will communicate to me, from time to time, any matters you mav
desire my advice upon, and it shall cheerfully be afforded. I sincerely
wish you a successful and honorable issue to your commission.1
1The convention failed, as had been foreseen. In eommunieatingthe formal
report of the American Commissioners to Congress, March 81st, General
Washington alluded to tho report transmitted by the Minister of France,
that, on account of the difficulty in procuring men in Germany, the British
Court had instructed Sir Henry Clinton to treat with General "Washington,
on national grounds. The unreliability of this report was shown by the reFult
of tho Convention atAmboy. Therefore, following AYashington's in
structions, the commissioners refused to treat on any other grounds. The
British Commissioners insisted on the exchange being, at all events, extended
to one half of the Second Division of the Convention troops. General
"Washington said lie would carry out such apian if Congress ordered it, but he
asked to bo excused from deciding it. "On the ono hand, the acuuiaiilun of
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 505
General Phillips1 to General St. Clair.
Amboy, March 20th, 1780. '
Sir:—I entered upon the commission which is now ended, prom
ising myself there would be derived from it real advantages to the
unlucky sufferers of both armies by a general exchange; unsuccessso
many men will be of great moment to the enemy, if they meet with
success nt the southward; on the other, I see not how we shall bo able to
maintain our officers in captivity, and the expense is no trifling considera
tion."
General Phillips reported to Lord George Germain : "This attempt for a
general cartel and exchange has proven ineffectual, as every former one 1 ad
done founded on an objection to tlio powers given by Sir Henry Clinton;
and your Lordship will directly obsorvo tlio great olject of the American
Congress is to work some public act, in which General Washington may be
concerned with Sir Henry Clinton in character of equality with Great Britnin,
on the principles of nation against nation at war; and the positive dec
laration of the American Commissioners on this matter fully evinces the
fact, and that a general cartel can never fake place on any other ground,
which, it may be imagined, will never bo suffered by Great Britain. In a
number of attempts to release tlio troops of Convention, the matter was
broken off under several descriptions. Ai one time, the American Corgress
would not exchange the troops in corps; at another, they were willing to
exchange private soldiers to a certain number, but it was never understood
what number or in what manner. Interested, as I have been, it has led mo
to hold conversations with a number of American officers, proving to them
that the troops of Convention stood under a particular description, and that
exchanging the officers without the men against American officers, prison
ers of war could not be considered as equal, tho American officers going to
an immediate activity of fcrvice, and the Convention officers not d.iing so,
as the regiments to which they belonged would still be in captivity; and,
however eligible and convenient for the officers themselves, it would be of
no advantage to the King's service."
1William Phillips, Major-General in the British army, whe commanded
the artillery under General Borgoyno in the investment of Ticonderoga.
Ho had won distinction as a soldier in Germany, and from his experience
there quickly saw the importance of having possession of Sugar-I.oaf Hill,
in the work of reducing the forts on Lake Champlain. IIo took pilrt in the
battles of Bemiss Heights, and was made a prisoner at Saratoga. The
troi ps surrendered there under the terms agreed on between General Ga<cs
and General Burgoyne, were called Convention Troops, and were com
manded by General Phillips on their march to Virginia. General Phillips
was actively engaged in the South aftor his exchange, and died of bilious
fever at Bollingbrook, on the James River, 14th May, 1781, one year after
the correspondence with St. Clair, while General La Fayette was investing
tho place. It is claimed, by British chroniclers, that shot passed through
506 The St. Clair Papers.
ful prosecution of that matter, the papers composing the minutes of
our proceedings will explain.
I felt great satisfaction, however, at the proposition which was
made by you and Lieutenant-Colonels Carrington and Hamilton to
enter into a private conversation upon the subject of exchanges, and
to try if it might not be possible to bring that purpose to boar un
der an usual and customary mode by letters between tho two Commanders-in-C'.iief,
without any future appointment of commission
ers, which seems to have retarded rather than have hastened a
business S3 very essential to tho number of suffering individuals.
I am sure, sir, your candor will allow that I, as well as LieutenantColonels
Gordon and Norton, entered into your idea with the utmost
cheerfulness, and I apprehend it was mutually agreed upon to con
verse upon the matter dispassionately, aud to endeavor at removing
those difficulties which might appear to act against a general ex
change, in which tho troops ofConvention were to be connected. I
allow this to have been done to a certain degree, when it became
necessary for us to make a proposition that might fix certain stated
points of time aud characters, and put the matter upon a future in
disputable footing. This drew from you, sir, a paper which you
held to us as an ultimatum on your part,1 that was so contrary to
our expectations aud seemed so little calculated to answer the good
purposes proposed, that it forced us reluctantly to become silent
upon a business which we found so very unlikely to be brought to
any desirable issue.
I can not suffer you to depart from this place without making an
observation or two upon the paper you delivered to me ; and, in the
first instance, I must be allowed to remark that Lieutenant-Gover
nor Hamilton 2 is placed in a description of exchange which had never
the house where General Phillips was dying, anil that when La Fayette's
attention was called to it, he refused to desist. This, however, is not true.
General Phillips was buried in the old Blandford church-yard, from which
his remains were never removed. His correspondence with St. Clair dis
played u humane sentiment highly creditable.
1This was in accordance with the determination of Washington not to
treat on any but terms of absolute equality. It was nlso important that the
British army should not bo speedily reinforced with the Convention troop'.
Hence, technicalities were more strenuously insisted on than they would
have been, probably, under other circumstances.
* IIenry Hamilton, Lieutenant-Governor of Canada, was captured at Post
Vinccnnes, by George Rogers Clarke, on the occasion of his expedition to
the North-west. Hamilton and several of his chief officers were sent as
prisoners to Williamsburg, Virginia, where, on account of their alleged cjm
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 507
been a part of our conversation on that subject ; the proposition for
his being released "was mutual, and we offered to your view, at the
same time, several officers who were in the same situation with him
self; but the Lieutenant-Governor and these officers were always
included in cur conversation, to be exchanged against such of your
officers, prisoners of war, as might be in Georgia ; and never, in
any time of our discourse, came into a calculation of that plan of
'exchange which comprehended the American officers prisoners of
war in these parts.
The paper contains, in the second instance, a long interwoven
matter, in the body of which is expressed, that the balance of offi
cers, if any, after a discussion of certain points, shall be applied, as
far as they will go, towards an exchange of the second division of
the troops of Convention ; but, Sir, the points to be discussed sur
round this offer in such a manner as to put out of question any
possible operation. The persons who may be produced under no
present certain description, and of Canadians who have been pro
duced, must necessarily involve the matter in such a perplexed dis
cussion as would, in course, prevent the troops of Convention from
receiving any advantage from the American officers, prisoners of
war, in Georgia, as described within the period of the 31st of De
cember, 1779.
In the prosecution of an exchange on our part, the first object
has invariably been, the officers and soldiers, prisoners of war; after
them the troops cf Convention, by corps; but in pursuing the lat
ter, the greatest attention must be observed to avoid, not only the
reality, but the appearance also, of partiality, and that in exchang
ing the first division the greatest care must be had to give effect to
the exchange of those corps whoso unlucky lot has put them into
a second division ; and it is necessary, also, that, after having
agreed to your proposal, that certain gene/al officers should go with
each division. It should never be conceived those general officers
would suffer themselves to be exchanged without a duo considera
tion for the troops, and under such a description of numbers r.s
plicity in inciting the Indians to murderous attacks on tlio frontiers, they
were thrown into jail and heavily ironed. Governor Jefferson finally or
dered them released from their confinement, but the wrath of the people.
would not he appeased, On account of the claimof the State of Virginia
to the control of Hamilton, General Washington could not autherize the
Commissioners to recognize him as a prisoner of the United Colonies on the
occasion under consideration. r
508 The St. Clair Papers.
might prevent any possibility of a seeming partiality, or a desire of
being exchanged unconnected with the officers and soldiers.
The first division under the description is free of any doubt, but
the operation of the second would bear a little hard ujxm my char
acter, positively so upon my feelings, if I did not contend, even to a
risk of the loss of my own liberty, that a proper and suitable num
ber of officers and men should be absolutely exchanged with me,
and a view left open for the future exchange of the re.st, when there
may be American prisoners of war in Sir Henry Clinton's hands, to
enable him to propose an exchange for the remainder of them.
This might be done, I apprehend, consistent with the feelings and
the honor of the troops of Convention, and of their general officers,
supposing the proposition made by myself, Lieutenant-Colonels Gor
don and Norton had been accepted, by which the balance of Amer
ican prisoners of war in these parts joined with the American pris
oners of war in South Carolina and Georgia, to the 31st of Decem
ber, 177!), would go to the release of the troops of Convention, as
far as they applied ; the release of the remainder would depend
upon the future operations of the war ; and, although they might
have occasion to lament their ill-fortune, would acknowledge the
impartiality of the conduct used towards them, the corps being ex
changed by lot, and the general officers in a proportion with those
corps.
Had any exchange taken place, I should have contended that,
after leaving a proper number of officers with each remaining corps
of troops of Convention, the others might have had the liberty of
going to Europe upon their paroles, under the stipulation that
American officers made prisoners of war might have their paroles,
also, agreeable to the terms of the proposal signed by me and the
four American officers.
Having, thus far, explained to you my sentiments, I am free to
declare to you that I think an exchange might have taken place,
had not such particular terms beeu proposed as have put it out of
my power, individually, to offer them as a man of honor, and so in
timately connected with the exchange, to his Excellency, General
Henry Clinton, and I am of the opinion an exchange may still
take place, should you incline to recede from the particular articles
which have combined to form the difficulty. I shall, at all times,
be ready to meet you, personally, at Elizabethtown or Staten Island,
and endeavor, with the consent of our superiors, to bring this
very interestincr matter to a happier conclusion than wc have now
been able to do.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 509
I feel great pleasure in having met you, Sir, and beg to testify
the greatest esteem for your very polite conduct towards mc and
the other gentlemen.
You will, in course, consider this a private letter.
Major-General Phillips to General St. Clair.
Amboy, March lid, 17S0.
Sir:—When your leisure will allow you to exnmine the compara
tive views of the officers who are on parole of the British and
American armies, you will perceive that, exclusive of some char
acters on both sides, for whom no estimate has been' made, there re
mains a balance in favor of Mr. Loring, British CommissionnnGeneral
of prisoners, of forty-eight numbers, equal to something
more than a major and a captain.
Having had very much at heart, for a long time, the situation of
Major Hamage and Captain Hawker, of the Sixty-second British
Regiment, belonging to the troops of Convention, the former of
whom has a family, I am to request the favor of your interposition
with General Washington that these officers may be allowed the
liberty of going immediately upon their paroles to New York. The
principles of liberality, exclusive of the equality of parole exchanges,
give me, I apprehend, a just claim for naming these officers upon
this occasion, and I am sure I need not say more upon the subject,
being fully convinced they will be admitted upon their paroles.
It becomes necessary for me in this public letter, to give the same
fair and honorable inscription, as I hope I have done in every part
relating to our commission, of what respects Lieutenant-Governor
Hamilton.
Unacquainted with what rank he might bold in the army, and
uncertain whether he derived any military rank from being Lieu
tenant-Governor of Detroit, I wrote to those persons and charac
ters at New York who have a right to govern me in my transactions
relating to that gentleman, and if his exchange had fortunately be
come a matter for our decision, I should have been fully competent
to decide of what value he might be estimated in the tariff we have
used in our calculations on this subject; but that being out of the
question, I now offer, from motives of humanity on my part (which
I have no doubt will govern you in your report of this matter to
General Washington), that if Lieutenant-Governor Hamilton, Major
Hay, Captain La Motte, and Mr. Justice Dejean be sent in upon
510 The St. Clair Papers.
their paroles to New York, Colonel Mathews, an American prisoner
of war on Long Island, shall be admitted to go out on parole for
them. It is to be understood, at the same time, that this^does not
determine or bear on the question of rank, but that wc are acting
merely from motives of compassion to suffering individuals, in en
deavoring to afford them, although not exchanged, the comfort of
being with their respective friends. Should I, by accident, have
omitted the name or description of any person capitulated for by
Lieutenant-Governor Hamilton, and with him a prisoner of war, I
request, through your interposition, the favor of General Washing
ton's consideration for such person or persons, that they may be per
mitted to go into New York upon parole, and I give my full assur
ance that adequate ranks from the American prisoners of war shall
be sent out for them.
I will not tire you with a recapitulation upon paper of the various
conversations we" have had on the subject of exchanges of prisoners
of war, the troops of Convention being ectirely out of the question,
more than to assure you that I believe whenever his Excellency,
General Washington, will permit it, the American officers, prisoners
of war, violators of parole, to be admitted iuto an immediate ex
change (provided only they can not be sent into New York), that a
general exchange of the prisoners of war on both sides might take
place.
I can not but feel much satisfaction that although this meeting
of British and American Commissioners has ended like that of
former interviews of the same nature, it has, however, served to
describe the matter of a general exchange in such a manner as to
offer a number of preliminaries to a fair and honorable view, and I
most sincerely hope, as I am convinced you do, sir, that some more
fortunate (they can not be more zealous) persons may be employed
on so humane a purpose.
I will add only one more paragraph to this long letter. It is a
wish that, in the unfortunate contest between Great Britain and
America, the professional character of liberality and humanity
usual among military men, may be preserved and adhered to, upon
all occasions where those feelings may operate to render individuals
less unfortunate. I can not conclude without assuring you, sir, of
the great satisfaction I have had in meeting you, and it is with great
pleasure, as with great truth, that I declare how very much I esteem
the fairness and liberality which has governed your conduct during
the present meeting.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 511
General St. Clair, to General Pihllits.
Camp near Morristown, April 3, 1780.
Sir:—I have now the pleasure to acknowledge the receipt of the
three letters you did me the honor to write on the 20th, 22d and
29th1 ultimo, and should not have so long delayed the acknowledg
ment of the first two had it been earlier in my power to have given
you a satisfactory answer ; that of the 29th came not to hand until
yesterday.
I am happy to inform you that the American Commissary of
Prisoners has received General Washington's orders to signify to
Major Harnage and Captain Hawker that they have his permission
to go to New York on parole, as their situation will thereby be ren
dered less irksome to themselves, and it will afford some gratification
to you.
The General can not accede to the proposal respecting Governor
Hamilton, and the gentlemen included with him, in the capitulation
with Colonel Clarke. Although their release would have been con
sidered in a general exchange, he does not think himself at liberty
to make them the objects of a particular parole exchange, as they
are claimed as prisoners by the State of Virginia ; besides, the re
turn on your part appears to him unequal.
It was extremely obliging in you to interest yourself in favor of
Mr. Randolph and Mr. Fitzhugh. His Excellency will give the
necessary orders that Lord Torphiccn and Lieutenant Hud
son may go into New York on parole, and will consider these gen
tlemen as opposed to them for the present, but he chooses to limit
the stay of Mr. Randolph and Mr. Fitzhugh to a certain period ;
and it is expected that when they return to New York (if the British
officers should not be recalled), that two other American officers of
the same rank with Lord Torphicen and Mr. Haddcn, and the oldest
in captivity, will be immediately liberated on the same conditions.
It did not occur to me that the stipulation with respect to Chap
lains had not been signed by the respective Commissaries of Prison
ers, but it was fully understood, and Mr. Beatty has now orders to
interchange with the British Commissary a certificate that the
Chaplains belonging to either army, when taken, are not to be con
sidered as prisoners of war, but are to be immediately released. If
the persons agreed to be exchanged at Amboy, and opposed to the
Americans who have been sent to Elizabethtown in consequence,
1 Missing.
512 The St. Clair Papers.
are not yet sent on, he will again have orders to return them with
all possible dispatch.
Inclosed is a passport for Mr. Bibby. What the result of our
conversations at Amboy may be I can not determine, but the desire
I have, with you, to give relief to the sufferers of both armies, in
duces a wish that they may produce the hoped-for effect; but it will
be yet some time before that can be known. Whatever it may be, it
is the duty, as it can not but give pleasure to every humane and
liberal man,to alleviate, as much as possible, the distresses of un
fortunate individuals in this unhappy contest. As far as my influ
ence or example reaches, it shall ever be my care.
It is very flattering to me that my conduct on the late Commis
sion met your approbation, and I thank you for the very civil men
tion you have been pleased to make of it. I should be wanting in
sincerity and politeness if I did not assure you that the satisfaction
was mutual, and that nothing would give me more pleasure than to
meet you again, and be an instrument in bringing to a happy issue
a business in which humanity in general and your own present feel
ings are so much interested.
P. S. —I forgot to mention that I think there is little reason to
expect any change with respect to those who have broken their
paroles. All of them that can he come at will certainly be sent in ;
but I believe General Washington will never be brought to give
them a preference in exchange, which he c«n not help considering
as annexing a reward to a perfidious breach of honor.
General PniLLips to General St. Clair.
New York, April &th, 1780.
Sir:—I yesterday received your letter dated the 3d inst., and am
much obliged to you for the attention you have paid to my etters,
which you mark to have received. The passport for Mr. Bibby came
too late by forty-eight hours, but I shall, however, send him to Sir
Henry Clinton by the first opportunity of a ship's sailing to the
southward, and, perhaps, before that happens you may be able to
write a little more explicitly than you have done upon the subject
of our conversations after the Commission had broken up, for, if I
recollect rightly, you were to have sent me some little idea how far
you had impressed a certain body at Philadelphia with the likeli
hood of exchanges taking place under certain descriptions of private
conversations between you and me.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 513
The paragraph of your letter relating to Messrs. Randolph and
Fitzhugh's returning, and for other officers being, then, sent out, is
very reasonable, and there can be no doubt about it. I am sorry
there appears no likelihood of a present exchange of officers, pris
oners of war ; for, you may depend upon it that, until the violators
of parole are accounted for on your part, no other American officers,
prisoners of war, will be exchanged, and it leads me to observe to
you, that, in a review of the violators of parole, there appears a
number of names, particularly in the rank of lieutenant, of per
sons taken at Fort Washington, who are undoubtedly within the
same degree of exchange with any others on Long Island taken at
that time, and I imagine if you will talk with Mr. [ ] upon the
subject he will expluin it to you. I allow that the violators of pa
role do not deserve reward for what you properly term a "perfidious
breach of honor," but I must be of the opinion that a stricture
upon the conduct of these persons refers to them only, not to us,
and that we have an undoubted right to hold their persons in actual
captivity, or that they should be exchanged. I can not but much
wonder you do not wish to get rid of them in that manner, more es
pecially as you can not be ignorant of my being informed of the
real state of your prisoners of war on Long Island, who can not be
released without paying their debts for subsistence, which can never
be held as entirely private, considering their public characters. I
have no doubt of all the proceedings between the Commissaries of
Prisoners, under our direction at Amboy, being carried into execu
tion, and I request you will make my compliment of thanks to Gen
eral Washington for his indulgence to Major Harnage and Captain
Hawker.
This letter is carried out of New York by Major Von Stein, of
Lieutenant-General Knyphausseu's regiment, a prisoner of war on
parole here, and included in the estimate signed by the two Com
missaries of Prisoners. He returns to Pennsylvania with money for
the German officers, but particularly to settle his own private ac
counts, which he left undischarged there, when he came in upon
parole.
This officer will, in course, have liberty to return into New York
after he shall have settled his business, but, should he prefer re
maining among his fellow-sufferers, I shall, in a future letter, name
two captains in his place which will fill the measure of the estimate
of the officers on parole before mentioned to have been agreed upon
by the two Commissaries of Prisoners.
I am very happy in thus corresponding with you. Much good
f^
514 The St. Clair Papers.
accrues to suffering individuals by tuch intermediate explanations
to superior officers, and I shall ontinue to write to you from time
to time, as such occasions may offer, and request you will do the
same to me. It can not fail of giving you pleasure, as I dare say
you are convinced it will me, whenever we can have it in our power
to alleviate the sufferings of unfortunate individuals.
P. S. —I inclose you a parcel of newspapers which contain, I be
lieve, true intelligence as much as relates to Europe. Would to
heaven that Great Britain and America were once again united ;
the riches of Spain would then, as usual, be shared among the sons
and brothers of Great Britain and America.
General St. Clair to General Phillips.
Camp near Morristown, April loth, 1780.
Sir:—I have been favored with both your letters of the 8th inst.,
and am very sorry that the passport for Mr. Bibby did not arrive in
time. It was sent as soon as possible after the receipt of your for
mer letter. However, from the delay, he may be able to carry with
him the result of our conversations, with the intentions of Congress
thereupon, which you will be made acquainted with as soon as they
are known to the General.
It gives me great pain that the exchange of those persons who
have violated their paroles should, in the first instance, be so stren
uously insisted on, as I see but little probability of the proposal
that has been made respecting them, on our part, being receded
from. Any number of such, however, that were captured at Fort
Washington, there will be no difficulty about, as they must be, at
least, as early prisoners in their respective ranks as any, and Mr.
Beatty will have directions to exchange them. It is very true any
strictures upon these people's conduct can refer to them only, nor
do I dispute the right you have to insist upon their exchange, or
holding them in actual captivity ; yet the exchanging them in pref
erence to others who have preserved their faith and honor, holds out
a strong temptation to the violation of both.
I took the earliest opportunity to present your thanks to General
Washington respecting Major Harnage and Captain Hawker, and
to mention Mr. Pausch to him.
He very readily consented to Mr. Pausch's going into New York
on parole, on account of the relation in which he stands to his Ex
cellency, General Knyphaussen ; but he does not approve of Mr.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 515
"Williamson's being opposed to him. For the present, however, Mr.
Williamson will not be ordered back ; but, he thinks, when particu
lar characters are wanted, on one part or the other, out of the
general line of exchanges, there should be previous notice and
agreement between the Commissaries.
I find myself extremely happy in your correspondence, both from
the humane purpose of it, and the great respect I bear you per
sonally, and have to regret that it must for some time be interrupted,
as I am this day setting out on a visit to my family.
General St. Clair to General Washington.
1 Camp, July 3, 1780.
The reduction of New York, together with the British army, is
certainly, of all others, the most desirable object, but the seige of
any place, although not regulary fortified, furnished with such a
1 To drive the British out of New York was the object always uppermost
in Washington's mind. In 1770, ho had hoped to do a stroke upon the
enemy there, but circumstances did not admit of it. Now. that La Fayette
had brought word from the Court of France that the Colonies would be sus
tained vigorously and efficiently by the King's army, navy, and money and
that the Count do Rochambenu was on his way with a fleet, Washington re
curred to the purpose nearest his heart, and invited the suggestions of Gen
eral St. Clair as to the plan of campaign. Hence the letter above. It will
be seen that, while St. Clair presented a comprehensive plan of attack (which
Washington approved of and mainly adopted, as will be seen by reference
to his letters to Congress, La Fayette, and Greene) he did not regard the
undertaking as feasible as a combined movement against Canada. In this,
he touched La Fayette in a tender place. It was a favorite scheme of the
Frenchman, that of reconquering Canada and restoring the power of the
monarchy in the North, only second to that of giving freedom to the Colo
nies. But whether he had impressed his views on St. Clair, or whether the
latter, recalling his early military experience, and knowing that the posses
sion of that country would be the most effectual method for destroying
British power in America, is not known Nevertheless, he pressed the mili
tary movement on Washington's attention, and was supported by both La
Fayette and Gates. Washington and Congress were averse to it for politi
cal reasons only. They doubted the wisdom of a policy which might bring
about complications with Frunce when the day of adjustments should arrive.
It seemed cruel to let a shadow of suspicion against the French fall upon
the devoted and pure La Fayette. "God grant." wrote he to Washington,
in 1779, "that the sun of freedom may at length arise for the happiness of
mankind." "Serving America is to my heart an inexpressible happiness."
It will be seen that not only was the Canadian invasion scheme abandoned,
but the attack on New York failed. r
516 The St. Clair Papers.
garrison as New York will be, is a very serious business, and though
the enterprise may succeed, it has not that degree of certainty which
in our circumstances should induce the undertaking it. The failing
in some lesser operation might be very disastrous, but in one of that
magnitude, it would go near to ruin us.
The force in New York and its dejiendencies is estimated at 8,000
effective rank and file ; militia and refugees, 5,000 ; returned with
Sir Henry Clinton, 3,000 (or 2,500) ; total, 16,000.
To offset these, we have, exclusive of the garrison of West Point,
which, in case of an attempt upon New York, may be reduced to
500, 7,500 ; recruits may possibly come in to the amount of 6,000 ;
and the French may be, perhaps, set at 8,000; total, 21,500.
With this force, possession is to be obtained of New York Island,
which will, most probably, be very warmly disputed with us, and
may lessen our numbers considerably for the campaign. But I will
suppose that with 20,000 effective men, we have got footing on the
Island ; still, that number will be found insufficient to the purpose,
because its operations must be directly against New York, or it
must be divided to act at the same time on Long Island, which may
give the enemy an opportunity to make a stroke at either, and their
succeeding against either, defeats the designs of the whole. But
still further, all prospect of success depends upon the command of.
the water,1 and however answerable our force may appear to the
purpose, it should be reduced to a certainty that the enemy, during
the course of the siege (which may be expected to be of no small
duration), can not oblige the fleet to abandon us.
But, supposing the point fixed, that the naval force is sufficient,
would it not be a better way to distress the enemy, to operate in
some distant section with a part of the troops and shipping, and
keep them blocked in New York with the rest ? Canada is an ob
ject of considerable importance, and the loss of it would be felt
very sensibly. The troops of that country are valuable, and the
friendship of almost all the savages on the continent depends upon
it. The troops for its defense arc not numerous, and the disposition
of the inhabitants may, I believe, be depended on. If a body of
troops, equal, perhaps, to the whole force in Canada, was to enter
that country by Colonel Hazen's road, and another body of the
French, of about the same strength, which should carry with them
all the necessary apparatus for the whole, with a few ships of war,
should enter it by the .St. Lawrence, their junction (supposing no
1 That the blockading fleet should be superior to the British, was indispen
sable.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 517
accident to happen the fleet before Quebec), would not be difficult,
and the reduction of the country the almost certain consequence.
Even a greater force than I shall mention might be spared and
enough left to preserve the blockade; and, indeed, it would, per
haps, not be improper that the body which enters Canada by laud
should be stronger than I have proposed.
If the exertions of the States should produce a very considerable
reinforcement to our army, and the naval superiority of France be
ascertained, another detachment of troops and ships might be made
to operate against Halifax, which place, should the harbor be found
too much fortified for the vessels to attempt to force the passage,
may, nevertheless, be carried by the land, as there are many con
venient places for landing at no great distance from it, and where
there are good harbors—La Mere, particularly, on the Halifax side,
which runs up, if my memory serves me, within fifteen miles, and
several on the Bay of Fundy. I have said a few ships of war
should enter the St. Lawrence ; these, I think, need be no other
than frigates, and may be very safe against a much superior force
by occupying the Island of Condre,1 which lays immediately below
the traverse, where the passage of the river is narrow and difficult,
and no anchorage until you get above the lower point of it.
A simple frigate in Penobscot will prevent the withdrawing the
troops there, as I believe they can not march from there to any
part of Nova Scotia.
St. Augustine will probably fall into the hands of the Spaniards,
and the army under General Gates, though there is little probability
that it can recover Carolina, may, however, check Lord Cornwallis,
and perhaps oblige him to act on the defensive.2
These are my thoughts on the matters your Excellency was
pleased to refer to me, and to all, or some of these points, our views
and preparations should be principally directed ; but how our finan
ces and the resources of the country may accord with them, I can
not determine. Canada can furnish wheat in great abundance, but
little flour, and no meat.
The blockade of the British army if it can be effected, whilst our
operations are carried on with vigor in some more distant quarter,
would do them as much injury in Europe as the reducing them by
force. It would render them ridiculous in the mean time, and
1In the St. Lawrence River, below Quebec.
2Gates was not only not able to cope with Cornwallis, but met with a
crushing defeat, which compelled the reorganization of the Southern army
un er Greene.
518 The St. Clair Papers.
might end in a submission, whilst it would effectually prevent the
eclat that attends a vigorous and well-directed defense.
General St. Clair to General Washington
Camp, July 12th, 1780.
The fleet having entered the bay of New York, and that city be
ing the object, it appears necessary to pass some vessels of force
above the Narrows, in order to oblige the enemy to discover their
intentions with regard to Staten Island. If they do not mean to
dispute the possession of it, their garrison will be withdrawn in
stantly ; but it may be that they may choose to sacrifice some part
of the troops on that island, with a view to retard your operations.
In either case, I think that island must be taken possession of and a
junction formed upon it with the French troops, the debarkation of
which, if the enemy keep possession, may be so regulated as to be
made at the same instant that such part of this army as your Ex
cellency shall think proper crosses to it ; which will necessarily in
duce a division of the enemy's force, and render the resistance feeble
against both—or, reduce them to suffer you to land without opposi
tion. The commencing our operations from Staten Island will save
so much transportation that it becomes an object of consequence.
The passage from thence to Long Island is not often difficult, and itd
shores are, in many places, suited to the landing of troops, partic
ularly along the bay side from New Utrecht by Gravesend, Flat
Lands, and Jamaic Bay, when the wind is at or betwixt the North
and West. The army bcing once established upon Long Island, the
investment of the enemy's works at Brooklyn and their reduction
follows, of course, if they do not previously give yon battle; which,
from whatever quarter the operations proceed, I am persuaded they
will endeavor to do. But this is one reason why I would prefer
throwing the army, or at least the greater part of it, over from
Staten Island to Long Island, as that country does not present many
advantages to the enemy, and you may possess yourself of the most
favorable position, which is the high ground from Flat Bush, across
towards the East River by Bedford,before them. If they give you
battle there, and are worsted, the reduction of all river posts is for
warded, and I believe the city may be very much annoyed during
the operations against Brooklyn—the works there once carried, it is
no longer tenable. Another reason why I would prefer operating
Coriespondence, Addresses, Etc. 519
upon Long Island is, that there is not so great a probability of a
vigorous resistance at the entering upon it as upon York Island, for
there are so many landing places that the enemy may be held in
great doubt about those you mean to make use of. Supposing that
they have discovered your general design, the country is by no means
so favorable to them as York Island ; and in order to prevent them
from opposing it with their whole force, a body of eight or ten
thousand men may be moved towards Morrisiana, which will oblige
them to keep a force in that quarter sufficient, at least, to resist any
undertaking they may suppose them equal to ; or leave open the
principal passage to York Island. These, together with the garri
sons of Brooklyn and Paulus Hook, which can not be less than five
or six thousand, will so much reduce them as to give little proba
bility of success to an attempt upon your- main body acting on Long
Island. Besides, if boats are collected in the East River, which,
were it only to amuse the enemy there, must be done, any part of
that force at Morrisiana may occasionally be thrown over to Long
[slaud. At any rate, a detachment of the army sufficient to restrain
(heir foragers must be somewhere in that quarter. But suppose the
post at Brooklyn carried, possession is still to be obtained of York
Island, but it will then be easier as they must, of necessity, abandon
the city, and we shall have the command of the shores of both
rivers. It is not at all improbable that in the course of our opera
tions the city of New York will be destroyed; indeed, I have very
little doubt that it would be the most speedy manner of reducing
them, as the greatest part of their magazines must go with it, and
it may be worthy consideration, even if it should not be aimed at.
They will probably retire to the high grounds in front of Mr.
Wall's house, where an exceeding strong camp may be formed ; and
there wait in hopes of relief till the most irresistible of all assail
ants, famine, humbles their pride and obliges them to sue for terms.
These are my general ideas about the attack on New York, upon
the supposition that every necessary ship is taken to preserve the
command by water—but it is very easy to take towns upon paper.
Should there be any probability that the command of the water may
be lost, the army should by no means be ventured upon Long
Island.1 Some fripates should be in the Sound.
1 In connection with St. Clair's communications of the 3d and 12th of .Inly,
above given, the reader should refer to a '• Memorandum for concerting a
plan of operations with the French army," under date of the 15th of July,
sent by General Washington to Marquis de Lafayette, to be communicated
520 The St. Clair Papers.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
Headquarters, August 1, 1780.
Dear Sir:—You will perceive, by the orders of this day, that the
corps of light infantry is immediately to be formed. The command
of it, for the campaign, is promised to the Marquis de Lafayette,
to Count De Bochambeau, and Chevalier De Ternay. The most important
paragraphs are the following:
1. In any operation, and under all circumstances, a decisive naval superi
ority is to be considered as a fundamental principle, and the basis upon
which every hope of success must ultimately depend.
2. The advantages of possessing the post of New York, by the squadron
of Franco, have been already enumerated to Count De Roehambeau and
Chevalier De Ternay, and are so obvious as not to need recapitulation. A
delay in the execution of this enterprise may defeat all our projects, and
render the campaign inactive and inglorious.
3. To render our operations nervous and rapid, it is essential for us to be
masters of the navigation of the North River, and of the Sound. Without
this, our land transportation will be great, our expenses enormous, and our
progress slow, if not precarious, for want of forage and other means.
4. With these ideas, and upon this ground, it is conceived that many ad
vantages will result from the French squadron's taking possession of the
inner harbor between Staten Island and the City of New York, and detach
ing a frigate or two above the c/ievaux-dc-frise in the North River, opposite
to Fort Washington, for the purpose of opening the navigation of the river.
shortening the transportation by land on the upper and lower communica
tion, and bringing the enemy to an explanation respecting Staten Island.
Shipping so near the town would, at the same time they cover the frigates
in the North River, keep the garrison in check, and bo more likely to facili
tate other movements of the army, than if they were to remain at the Hook
or below the Narrows.
5. Our operations against the enemy in the City of New York, may com
mence from either of threo points, to-wit: Morrisiana, or the height near
King's Bridge, or Staten Island. Each has its advantages and disadvan
tages, but under a full view of all circumstances, the preponderancy is in favor
of Morrisiana; especially since the aid of his Most Christian Majesty has
come by the way of Rhode Island, instead of Cape Henry, as it was ex
pected they would do, and touch at Sandy Hook, in consequence of advices
lodged there.
6. As the means for carrying on our operations are not yet sufficiently ap
preciated, nor is the time by which our aids will arrive sufficiently ascer
tained, it is impossible to be precise as to the time the American troops can
with safety rendezvous at Morrisiana; but, as it is necessary to fix some
epoch, it is hoped that it may happen by the 5th of August. I would pro
pose that day for the re-embarkation of the French efficient force at New
London (if they should have come there), and that they proceed up the
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 521
for reasons which, I dare say, will be to you obvious and satisfac
tory. If we attack New York, the part which this corps will take
will make it a most desirable command. Should it be agreeable to
you to take it until the return of this gentleman, which is uncer
tain, it would give me great pleasure. I wish you, however, to
consult your delicacy, and determine without the least restraint. I
want your answer.1
Sound to Whitcstone, on Long Island, or to such other place on that island,
or on the main, as circumstances may require, and the Count shall be advisea
of. For, the operations against the enemy depending very much upon
their holding all or dismantling some of their present posts, and upon con
tingencies on our side, it is not possible, at this time, to work out u precise
plan, or determine whether our approaches to the City of New York shall
bo by way of York Island, Brooklyn, or both. Numbers must determine
the latter, and circumstances of the moment the former.
7. It must be clearly understood and agreed between the parties, that, if
any capital operation is undertaken, the French fleet and land forces will, at
all events, continue their aid until the success of the enterprise, or until it is
mutually determined to abandon it.
George Washington.
1The answer has not been found. St. Clair, however, says in his narra
tive, that he joyfully accepted the command, grateful for this mark of the
high consideration for him manifested in this act by the Commander-inChief,
but the sudden return of Sir Henry Clinton to New York put an end
to the proposed movement, and the light infantry did not have an opportuity
to take part in active movements. This corps, says Sparks, " consisted
of six battalions, each composed of eight companies, selected from the dif
ferent lines of the army. These battalions were arranged in two brigades,
one of which was commanded by General Hand, and the other by General
Poor.1 The light infantry were stationed in advance of the main army."
Referring to this projected movement against the British at New York
(which must not be confounded with the plan concerted with the French),
in which St. Clair was to have the post of honor, I find this explanation by Washington, in a letter to the .Marquis de Lafayette: '•Though I previously
intended to attack New York, if Clinton had gone to Rhode Island, yet I
did not send for you, because I thought it not improbable he would return
in consequence of our movement, as has happened, and because your pres
ence where you are, in the other case, would have been of great utility to
the French fleet and army; but above all, because I was of opinion that it
would be impracticable for you to arrivo in time, as I intended to operate
with the utmost celerity."
(1) General Poor died on the 9th September. He had been in continuous service
from the beginning of the war, and, by intelligent action and devoted patriotism, had reflected the highest henor on his State (New Hampshire). He was a brigadier under St. Clair, and in the buttle of Hernia's Heights, was very efficient. Washington and St. Clair held him in high esteem.
522 The St. Clair Papers.
President Reed to General St. Clatb.
Bloomsbury, near Trenton, August 26, 1780.
Sir:—Your favor of the 19th inst.1 was delivered to me at this
place yesterday. I shall forward Major Church's list of promotions
to the Council, in order to obtain their commissions. As' there is
no certain account of Colonel Connor, I think it would be prema
ture to make an appointment in his place ; for, though his country
has not had the benefit of his service for some time, he ever bore
the character of a worthy, deserving officer, and, the disorder with
which he was afflicted having been contracted in the public service,
justice, as well as gratitude, will entitle him to much consideration.
Should he be alive, his feelings would be much wounded, and it
would be difficult, perhaps impossible, to rectify the error. Under
these considerations, therefore, I believe you will agree with me
that it is best to postpone it till we have more satisfactory accounts.
Colonel Harmer's merit is universally acknowledged, and I would
gladly do any thing to promote his interests consistent with my
duty, but I am sure he would not desire it at the expense of an un
fortunate, brave brother officer. . . .
General McDougall showed me the petition, or remonstrance, of
the general officers to Congress. As several of the particulars, such
as half pay for life, pensions for widows and orphans, comfortable
and decent clothing, etc., have been provided by Pennsylvania for
its troops•, unsolicited, and that upon a plan which was supposed to
be highly satisfactory, I was somewhat surprised to see it had been
signed in so unqualified a manner ; unless the provision of the htate
was in time, quantity, or other circumstance, unacceptable, I think
it would have been best to have discriminated, for many members
of Congress now think that the troops of all States are in the same
unprovided condition. I was always of opinion that the provision
for the federal army should have been on a general scale ; but, ex
perience having shown a fatal defect in their arrangements, necessity,
not policy, led me to promote a partial supply, and to make it hon
orable and effectual. But, if it is really the sense and desire of the
officers to lay aside their State provisions, and return to an immedi
ate dependence on Congress as the supreme governing power of
America, I am sure there is not a person or public character iu
Pennsylvania that will give it the least obstruction. It is certainly
the true line of Government, and, I am sure, if duly and regularly
1 Not found.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 523
lived up to, will render the army more effectual and independent of
partial systems, local or personal prejudices. As this memorial was
signed only by the general officers, you will easily have opportuni
ties to know their sentiments on this point.1
We have sent to Europe for a complete supply of clothing for
both officers and men, and, unless the accidents of the sea should
disappoint or delay us, we shall, in a few days, send to Boston to
secure some part of the great capture lately made there ; but if a
general plan of provision under the direction of Congress is likely to
take place, we can transfer to the Continent what purchases we
have made. But I should not choose to do this till there was a per
fect understanding of acquiescence of all parties interested. . . .
General St. Clair to President Reed.
Camp at Tappan, Sept. 5th, 1780.
It is certainly good policy to give the soldiery an interest in the
issue of the contest, which, by making them public creditors, you
do. And I believe it would be a means, if not of preventing it
altogether, of rendering desertion much less frequent than it has
been. The Eastern States had done this previous to the recom
mendation of Congress, and their troops are now in possession of
Government security, payable at four different terms, and bearing
interest. I hope the Middle States (and Pennsylvania in particu
lar), which have always got the start of their eastern brothers in
matters of generosity, will not be behind-hand with them in matters
of justice.
The enemy seem to confine themselves to the defensive. We
lately foraged the country about Bergen in a very insulting man
ner, and with such a disposition of our troops that, if they had
offensive designs, must have been a very great temptation, though,
to be sure, the passage of the North River is not an easy operation.
I wish their seeming listlessness may not proceed from too perfect a
knowledge of our situation.
We are starving, and, unless something very efficacious for the
1 Colonel Walter Stewart to General St. Clair, Philadelphia, January 3,
1782: "Exertions have been and still are making in Congress to constitute
us an army belonging to the United States, and leaving entirely out the
idea of State troops. Whether it will be carried or not is yet uncertain,
but we all hope, in this quarter, it may.'
524 The St. Clair Paper*.
supply of the army is done very speedily, we must disband or turn
freebooters—an evil of almost as much magnitude as the first.1
You have much influence with members of Congress. I entreat
you to make them sensible of the risk to which they are exposing
their country, and of the double risk to which they expose them
selves, for it begins to be a prevailing sentiment, both in the army
and in the country, that a party amongst them have been bribed
to drive things into confusion. When the resentment of a people
is aroused their revenge does not always extend to the guilty only.
l"At this very juncture I am reduced to the puinful alternative, either of
dismissing a part of the militia now assembling (though, by the way, they
were to have rendezvoused the 25th of last month), or let them come forward
to starve, which it will be extremely difficult for the troops already in the field
to avoid. . . . Kvery day's experience proves more and more that the
present mode of obtaining supplies is the most uncertain, expensive, and injurious
that could be devised. It is impossible for us to form any calcula
tions of what we are to expect, and, consequently, to concert any plans for
future execution. . . .
" I can not forbear recurring in this place to the necessity of a more ample
and equal provisipn for the army. The discontents on this head have been
gradually matured to a dangerous extremity. There are many symptoms
that alarm and distress me. Endeavors are using to unite both officers and
men in a general refusal of the money, and some corps now actually decline
receiving it. Every method has been taken to counteract it, because such a
combination in the army would be a Severe blow to our declining currency.
The most moderate insist that the accounts of depreciation ought to be
liquidated at stated periods, and certificates given by Government for sums
due. They will not be satisfied with a general declaration that it shall be
made good.
"This is one instance of complaint. There are others equally serious.
Among the most serious, is the inequality of the provision made by the sev
eral States. Pennsylvania maintains her officers in a decent manner; she
ha- given them ball-pay for life. What a wide difference between their sit
uation and that of the officers of every other line in this army, some of
whom are actually so destitute of clothing, as to be unlit for duty, and are,
for that cause, only obliged to confine themselves to quarters. I have often
said, and beg leave to repeat it, that the hall-pay provision is. in my opinion,
the most politic and effectual that could be adopted. On the whole, if some
thing satisfactory be not done, the army (already so much reduced in officers
by resignations, as not to have a sufficiency to do the common duties of it),
must either cease to exist at the end of the campaign, or it will exhibit an
example of more virtue, fortitude, self-denial, and perseverance, than has
perhaps ever yet been paralleled in the history of human enthusiasm."—
Washington to the President of Congress, August 20, 1780.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 525
General St. Clair to General Washington.
Camp, September 9, 1780.
The attack on New York always appeared to me a very hazard
ous and doubtful enterprise.1 I think it now out of the question al
together, on account of the advanced season ; our scant force ; the
precariousness of our supplies, and the want of a sufficient naval
force, in which a decided superiority is necessary to give the under
taking the least probability of success. If the Second Division of
the French Fleet should arrive soon, and that naval superiority be
obtained, it would require some time, as well as bringing forward
the apparatus and stores for a siege, and I should still hesitate
about the propriety of commencing operations against that place.
We could not, probably, reckon on more than two months to keep
the field. Winter would lx. upon us, and, with the force the enemy
have there, it is not unreasonable to suppose that they could suc
cessfully contest the ground with us for that space. I should hesi
tate, still more, because, though there have been instances of sieges
carried on in winter, there is an uncertainty of a constant and regu
lar supply of provisions, and a failure in that would as certainly
1 From this letter, it will be seen that the opinion had been reached that,
owing to the non-arrival of the Second Division of the French Fleet and
troops, us expected, it would be a desperate undertaking now to attack the
British at New York. The fleet, under the Chevalier de Ternay, was in
terior to that of the British under Admiral Arbuthnot, and, for this reason,
although a plan for a joint attack was formed with the present force, and
communicated to Count de Rochambeuu, that officer refused to approve of it.
He held that, unless he should he reinforced by the Second Division of French
troops, or succors should arrive from the West Indies, where the Count de
Guichen was engaged, or Sir Henry Clinton should detach a part of his force
to the southward, it would be wiser to act on the defensive. Washington
approved of this, although greatly disappointed in the inaction of the cam
paign. His anxiety was great, as, without money and without provisions, it
was impossible for him to keep an army in the field. "The Commander
feared." said the Count de Rochambeau, "and not witheut foundation, con
sidering the absolute discredit of the finances of Congress, that the struggles
of this campaign would be the last efforts of expiring patriotism. He
wished, at any hazard, to risk an attack upon the enemy in the stronghold,
while he had the French troops at his disposal." The Chevalier de Ter
nay decided to make his station in Boston Harbor, and Washington gave
orders for his troops to recross the river, and proceed toDobbs's Ferry, about
ten miles from King's Bridge, where he intended to establish a more eligi
ble communication, in case New York should prove to be the eventual object
of the Americans.
526 The St. Clair Papers.
subject us to a miscarriage, as if the enemy defeated us ; it is, in
deed, the most disgraceful of the two, because it might be foreseen.
The season is too far advanced for an attempt on Canada also.
From the misfortunes to the southward,1 North Carolina is in dan
ger of being entirely overrun ; nor are the frontiers of Virginia in
perfect safety. The troops proposed to be raised in that country and
Maryland may. not be completed in time to check the torrent, and,
when completed, no great dependence can be put upon them for
some time, as the greatest part of them will be raw, and the whole
undisciplined. It will, therefore, it appears to me, be necessary to
make a detachment from this army to that country, which, with the
others, may form au army of observation, and keep Lord Cornwallis
in check. The new troops will acquire discipline from the example
of the others, and from being, probably, frequently engaged in small
parties with the enemy, and the whole brought to such a state as to
be fit for offensive operations as occasion may require. That occa
sion will probably happen soon, for if the Second Division of the
French Fleet arrives this fall, it will be at the time most proper for
acting in South Carolina. If then the superiority at sea is cer.
tain, I would propose to embark the French troops, and send them
to Charleston. This would oblige Lord Cornwallis to fall back,
the army of observation would enter the country at his heels, oblige
the inhabitants to return to their allegiance to the States as they pro
ceeded, intercept his convoys, harass him in his march, cut off his
communication with the country, and, finally, by a junction or co
operation with the French, facilitate and secure the reduction of
Charleston. All this might be done in the course of this winter,
and the greater part of the troops employed in it rejoin the main
army before the opening of the next campaign. But this Ls all
upon the supposition that provisions and all other things necessary
are to be had in that country, and that proper means have been used
to procure them—without these, men are useless anywhere. If there
is still a prospect of acting against New York, the detachment I
have proposed can not be made, nor, indeed, can it be a very large
one, in any case, for though at present the prospect of offensive
operations being over, a considerable one might possibly be spared,
attention must be paid to what our force will be in January next.
Another consideration should have some weight, viz., that Sir Henry
Clinton may very probably expect that we will detach from this
1 This was the defeat of the atmy under General Gates on the 16th Au
gust, about eight miles from Camden.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 527
army, and may wait that opportunity to change his operations to
the offensive.1
This is the best opinion I have been able to form on the several
matters your Excellency was pleased to lay before the Council.
To the Officer Commanding at West Point.
Robinson House, September 27, 1780.
Sir:—You will immediately make a distribution of the troops
under your command to the several posts, that the whole may be in
a state of defense at the shortest notice. You will also have each
work supplied with ten days' provisions, wood, water and stores, and
keep up constantly that supply ; and you will take every other pre
caution for the security of the post. The enemy will have acquired,
from General Arnold, a perfect knowledge of the defenses, and will
be able to take their measures with the utmost precision. This
makes it essential that our vigilance and care should be redoubled
for its preservation. You will do every thing in your power to gain
information of the enemy's designs, aud give me intelligence, as
early as possible, of any movement against you.
A party of militia, who have been employed cutting wood,
and another as guards to the stores at Fishkill, that have been
called in, are to return to their destinations.
Colonel Gouviou will remain a few days at this post, to assist in
the necessary arrangements. I am, etc.,3
Geo. Washington.
1The general plun here outlined in September is very similar to that pur
sued by General Washington in the winter He dispatched Greene to South
Carolina, to confront Cornwallis, and when Sir Henry Clinton sent ft de
tachment to Virginia, under Arnold, he appealed to Governor Jefferson to
call out the militia, and ordered Lafayette, with a corps of Continental
troops, to Virginia, to co-operate with Baron Steuben, asked Rochambeau to
send a portion of the French fleet to operate in the Chesapeake Bay and the
James River, and suggested a co-operation of the French, Spanish, and
American vessels against the common enemy at St. Augustine, and for the
purpose of recovering South Carolina and Georgia. See correspondence
with Count do Rochambeau, General Lafayette, and Congress, December
1780, to February, 1781.— Washington's Writings, Vol. VII
2 The following indorsement, in the handwriting oi General St. Clair, is
on the back of the letter of instructions: "On the announcement of Ar
nold's desertion, an immediate attack being expected. I was sent to take the
command from Tappan."
On the day that the above instructions were written, General McDougall
528 The St. Clair Papers.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
[Instructions.]1 Tappan, October 1, 1780.
Sir:—You will repair forthwith to West Point, and take the
was directed to take the command at West Point til] the arrival of General
St. Clair.—Sparks, W. of W-, Vol. VII, p. 221. Note.
For several months, beginning while he was in command at Philadelphia,
Benedict Arnold had been carrying on a secret correpondenee with the
British commander at New York. After he obtained the command at "West
Point, his treasonable purposes were brought to a sudden issue. On the 20th
of September, John Andr6, Adjutant-General of the British army, went on
board the sloop of war Vulture, and proceeded up the Hudson, with a view
of holding an interview with Arnold. On the night of the 21st, a boat was
sent by Arnold to the Vulture, which brought Andr6 to the shore, about sis
miles below Stony Point, "and there, under the shadow of the mountains,
after midnight, the conspirators met." Thence they proceeded to the house
of Joshua Hett Smith, within two miles of Stony Point, where they break
fasted and completed arrangements for the surrender of West Point. Plans
of the works, their armament, the number of troops, etc., were furnished to
Andr6, and concealed by him between his stockings and his feet. As the
Vulture had beeii fired on by the Americans, she dropped down the river,
and this necessitated Andre"s remaining concealed at Smith's house all day.
Arnold furnished him with a pass, under the name of John Anderson, which
was to be used with the guards. Smith refused to put him on board the
Vulture, but agreed to escort him beyond the American lines. They started
in the evening, crossing the river at King's Ferry. They traveled eight
miles, and were stopped by an American patrol, who accepted the pass, but
advised them not to proceed farther that night. Tho next morning they
started again, and when the neutral ground was reached, Smith returned to
the river, and Andre continued his journey. He had exchanged his uniform
for plain clothes, and now regarded all danger as past. Hence, when he was
stopped soon after by three men, one of whom was dressed in British uni
form, Andre"s caution deserted him, and ho imprudently exclaimed, "Gen
tlemen, I hope you belong to our party." "What party?" was asked. ''The
lower party," said Andr6. "We do," said the other. Thereupon, A ndrg
declared himself to be a British officer, and told them not to detain him, as
he was on important business. The three men—John Paulding, Isaac Van
Wert and David Williams—then informed him he was their prisoner. No
offers of compensation could swervo them, and Andre had met his doom.
From Colonel Sheldon's headquarters, Andre sent a letter to General Wash
ington (September 24th), informing him of his real name and position, but
denying being a spy.
On the morning of the 25th, Arnold, whose headquarters were at the
Kobinson House, was startled by receiving a message from Washington, announcing
that he would breakfast with him. While Washington stopped to
1See note l,p. 529.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 529
command of that post, with its dependencies, till further orders.
The troops under your command will consist of the Pennsylvania
division, Colonels Meigs' and Livingston's regiments of Continental
troops, and a body of. Massachusetts and New Hampshire militia.
The inclosed is a copy of the instructions left for the commanding
officer, which you will please to observe. Unless you should think
it necessary, for the immediate security of the post, to draw the
First Pennsylvania Brigade nearer to West Point, I should wish it
to remain somewhere in its present position, as it may then, at the
same time, serve the purpose of reinforcing the main army in case
of a movement against it. But, on the first appearance of the
enemy coming in force up the river, that brigade should have pre
vious orders to march to your succor.
Orders have been given, in the case last mentioned, for the posts
inspect some posts, Lafayette and Hamilton rode forward to the Robinson
House, where they arrived as Mr. atid Mrs. Arnold were about to sit down
to breakfast. They were invited to join the family, which they did. Pretty
soon, an officer arrived with a letter to Arnold, which contained the infor
mation that Andre had been captured. Arnold saw that all would soon be
discovered to Washington. Excusing himself, he withdrew and proceeded
to make preparations for flight. Before leaving, he confided his secret to
his wife. Some hours passed after Washington's arrival before the terriblo
facts became known to him. He then took instant steps for defeating the
plot. He caused the arrest of Hctt Smith, and secured Arnold's staff-officers,
whe, however, were ignorant of all proceedings. On the 26th, Washington
wrote to the President of Congress, and on the 27th, issued the above order.
For the best accounts of the treason of Arnold, the reader is referred to
"The Life of Benedict Arnold," by Isaac N. Arnold; and to Irving's Life
of Washington.
1At the time the above order was received, General St. Clair was quite ill
with fever. He, hewever, immediately responded, and found no more leisure
time for sickness. Before arriving at West Point, he dispatched the follow
ing brief letter to Mrs. St. Clair:
Dear Madam : —I had intended to write you a long letter, but am so much
hurried that I can only tell you that I am now pretty well recovered—per
fectly of my fever, but have not quite got my strength again; the fine season
coming on will bring that with it. General Arnold's desertion has been the
cause of my going<o take the command of the posts where he was, from
whence you shall hear from me very soon. I will send a man to you with
such necessaries as you want and I can procure, and for farther particulars
must refer you to business letters. I was very much pleased with one I had
lately from John Murray,1 as well with the matter of it as with the writing,
which was better than I expected. Tell him ho shall have what he wrote
for. My love to all the children. I long much to see you all."
1 II is third son. 34
530 The St. Clair Papers.
of Verplanck's and Stony Point to be evacuated, with all the can
non and stores, and the garrison added to that at West Point. But
I would not wish this step to be precipitated ; as, in case of an at
tempt to surprise you, these posts will not only be useful to give you
the alarm, but they will probably, in all cases, gain you time, as the
the enemy would hardly venture to pass them with the transports
full of troops. The baggage and extra stores may be sent off at
the first aspect of a serious movement ; but the troops should not
evacuate until the enemy are in a situation to invest the posts.
Dobbs's Ferry may also serve you as an outpost ; but care must be
taken to distinguish the firing against a single vessel passing from
that against a number, which will, of course, be more continued.
Great vigilance should be used in patroling on the east side of the
river, as it would otherwise be easy for the enemy to land a body of
men below, and surprise Verplanck's Point. I must entreat your
particular care of the boats on the river ; to keep them in repair,
and, as much as possible, collected. All those at King's Ferry—
more than are wanted for the necessary service of the communica
tion—should be moved up the North River. A part of the militia
at Verplanck's and Stony Point may also be drawn to the main
garrison.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
Headquarters, Orange Town, 6</i October, 1780.
Dear Sir : —Four brigades, which are to compose the garrison at
West Point, march from this camp to-morrow morning. As soon,
therefore, as a sufficient number of men to relieve the Second Penn
sylvania Brigade and Meigs' regiment arrive, you will direct those
corps to join the army, which will lay near Pickaness,1 by the short
est route. I have myself given orders to General Wayne to move
to-morrow morning, with the First Brigade. You will be pleased
to remain yourself, until relieved by another Major-General.1
The following note was indorsed on the letter :
Dear General: —My position occasioned my taking the liberty of
•The change indicated in the above letter was brought about by General
Greene, who, on the 5th October, solicited the command. Greene was
senior Major-General, and a great favorite with the Commander-in-Chief, on
which Greene relied confidently. "I shall make use of no arguments," said
he, "being persuaded my pretensions and inclinations will have their full
operation, and that nothing short of the public good and military prosperitywill
contravene my wishes. Washington endeavored to dissuade Greene,
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 531
opening your letter, suspecting it might concern me. We will be
up in the morning.
I am, etc., Wm. Irvine.
General St. Clair to General Washington.
West Point, 1th October, 1780.
Sir:—I received your Excellency's letter of yesterday, and am
very glad that you have ordered up the troops which are to compose
the garrison, as it is very necessary they should be here, that things
may be got into some kind of order before the winter. At
present they are very much deranged. The laying in a proper
stock of firewood is a very heavy but a very essential business,
and the militia which have been employed in cutting it, I am
told, have done little more than supply the post at Fishkill, and are
very little ahead. I expect a report of the quantity to-day from
Colonel Hughes, to whom I have recommended to allot them a mod.
erate task per day, as the best means to make them most useful.
The magazine of provisions is very nearly exhausted ; thirty bar
rels, only, of salted meat on hand, exclusive of what is in the works
(about five days' for the troops posted in them), and no cattle, and
the men have been, some days, reduced to three-quarters of a pound
of flour. I expect, however, two hundred barrels of that article
to-day, and have written to Colonel Hay (to be laid before the Leg
islature of this State), very pressingly, to have an immediate and
ample supply of provisions thrown in, as it may not be possible to do
it some time hence, from the state the river is frequently in, about
the beginning of winter. I directed Colonel Livingston l to collect and send up here all the
boats that were not necessary below ; provided they had not been
ordered there by your Excellency for some particular purpose. His
answer is, that they were ordered there for transporting the cannon,
in case it became necessary to evacuate the posts he commands.
They will, therefore, remain there, unless I have your directions to
the contrary ; but, I must beg leave to suggest to your Excellency that,
after the intention of the enemy becomes apjttireut with respect to
but to no purpose. West Point he must have. This display of selfishness
dues not make us forget the merit of the man.
General Greene remained ut West Point from the 9th to the 16th of Octo
ber, when he whs relieved by General Heath. He was appointed to the
command in South Carolina.
1Colonel Livingston commanded tt Verplanck's Point und Stony Point
532 The Si. Clair Papers.
them, it will most probably be too late to evacuate them with any
probability of saving the cannon and stores. If they be evacuated
before their intention is discovered, it will be in their power to oc
cupy them, after they may have failed in an attempt upon this
place. I find some heavy brass field artillery here, which is not, I
suppose, intended for garrison use, and had better be removed.
Some repairs have been making upon the carriages, but that might
as well be done anywhere else. The Pennsylvania Brigade shall
march as soon as the other troops arrive.
The times of the militia begin to expire on the 14th, and will be
all expired on the 24th. I have not heard from Major Tallmadge,
nor have any accounts from New York by any other way.
General St. Clair to President Reed.
Trenton, January 4th, 1781.
Sir: —The Marquis and myself, with several other officers, ar
rived at this place about 3 o'clock. The mutineers, consisting nearly
of the whole Pennsylvania line and the regiment of artillery, are at
Princeton, where they arrived last night, and this day has beeu
spent in negotiating betwixt them and General Wayne, Colonel
Richard Butler, and Colonel Stewart ; and I have the honor to in
close you a copy of the terms proposed by them, with General
Wayne's answer. These are the only officers they allow to have
any communication with them, or to pass within their posts, which
arc, I am told, well chosen, and the guards very regularly mounted ;
and a committee of sergeants ihanages their business. You will see
how extravagant their proposals are, and General Wayne has gone
as far as he well could do in compliance with them. They have, as
yet, done very little injury to the inhabitants, and profess that thov
do not mean any ; but they begin to talk of their neighborhood to
New York, which makes it justly feared that there are amongst
them some emissaries of the enemy. This circumstance induces
Governor Livingston t-i think that it would be prudent, in easa they
persist, to suffer them to pass the Delaware, as it would then be
out of their power ta go to the enemy ; and, if force should ba nec
essary, a part of the militia of this State might be thrown over to
co-operate- with those of Pennsylvania in their reduction. No defini
tive resolution is, however, taken upon that head ; but it is neces
sary your Excellency should be apprised that it is in contemplation,
that the proper measures may be concerted, in case- of necessity.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 533
We propose to go to Maidenhead, to-night, to be able to get to them
early to-morrow, before they have opportunity to intoxicate them
selves, and your Excellency shall have the earliest notice of what
may happen, or of any thing that may occur to-night that comes to
our knowledge.1
P. S. —The chief justice of this State, and some members of
the Legislature, went up to. day to expostulate with them, but were
not permitted. An express is this moment arrived, that they have
refused General Wayne's terms, and propose to march to-morrow.
General St. Clair to General Washington.
Morristown, 1th January, 1781.
Sir:—Your Excellency has heard of the shameful defection of
the Pennsylvania line ; and I am very much concerned to inform
you that, as yet, there is no prospect, as we know of, of any desire
appearing in them to return to their duty. I happened to be in
Philadelphia the day the accounts of it arrived there, and set out
early next morning, in company with the Marquis do Lafayette, to
make trial of what influence we might have ; but, though we were
suffered to comc into Princekm, and there was an appearance of
satisfaction in the countenances of the troops, we were not allowed
to have any communication with them. A committee of sergeants,
who are doubtless at the bottom of the whole, have got the business
into their own hands, and no person is allowed to speak to the sol
diery but through them.
Their demands are no less than an almost total dissolution of the
line. They arc, to the best of my recollection, the discharge of all
those who have been enlisted in the years 1777 and '78, and who
received the bounty of twenty and one hundred and twenty dollars ;
immediate payment of their arrears and depreciation; and a general
indemnity. General Wayne, in answer to these demands, made
1Tho revolt of tlio Pennsylvania line took place at nine o'clock, on the
night of the flrst-of January. A low refused to join, but a great propor
tion, including the artillerists, formed und marched toward Philadelphia.
A few subordinate officers resisted, and wcro roughly handled. Captains
Billings and Talbot lost their lives. The demand of the troops was for an
immediate discharge. They moved under the direction of n, board of ser
geants. The regiments were under the immediate command of General
Wayne. That officer, and Colonels Butler and S'.ewart, continued with the
mqn. r
534 The St. Clair Papers.
them such promises as ought to have satisfied reasonable men, look
ing only for redress of grievances, whether real or imaginary, but
they were rejected ; so that I have no doubt but emissaries from the
enemy are amongst them, and believe that nothing but force will
reduce them to reason. Unhappily, however, there seems to be no
disposition in the militia of this State to come to that method ; and
it was the opinion of the Governor and such members of the Legis
lature as we saw at Trenton, that they should be suffered to pass the
Delaware. This I informed Governor Reed of, from that place,
that he might have time to take the proper measures ; but they
seem disposed to keep post at Princeton. Whilst we were at the
last place, Colonel Laurens came up, and we very soon after re.
ceived a notice that our being in town was very disagreeable, and
desiring us, for our own safety, to retire ; and our stay was after
ward limited to an hour and a half. As we had no prospect of tieing
of service, we set off, lest they should think of detaining us.
We have since heard that they have made General Wayne, Colonels
Butler and Stewart, prisoners ; but the most alarming circumstance
is, their having organized themselves, and appointed all the neces
sary officers.
There are still a few men at the huts, to whom I have sent this
morning, with an assurance that they will be considered principally
in whatever may be done for the line at large, and have directed
that they may be collected and marched to PersijKmny, to render
their communication with the revolters more difficult ; and have
given directions for removing the remaining artillery and ammuni
tion to Snekysunny.
We were unfortunate to miss Major Fisbbourn, and have no
knowledge of your Excellency's intentions. I thought it probable
that you might have come down to this place. If that is not your
design, I beg I may he favored with your Excellency's instructions.
P. S. —I have not learned that any movements of the enemy in
dicate an intention to enter Jersey, yet I can not persuade myself
that they will not endeavor to avail themselves of this disaster,
though, perhaps, they may defer it until it is certain that force is
necessary.
After Major Fishbourn's departure from Princeton, from a desire
expressed by the committee to confer with some of the Council of
Pennsylvania, General Wayne sent an express to Philadelphia, re
questing some of that body to meet them. They were expected to
arrive yesterday.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 535
General St. Clair to General Wayne.
Morristown, January 1th, 1781.
Sir : —His Excellency is not yet arrived ; neither have we heard
from him, having, somehow, unfortunately missed of Major Fishbourn
on his return, but we are in expectation every moment to see
him. He will certainly be very desirous to meet you and the other
gentlemen who have been with the troops, to hear your report, and
have you convey to them his comments. They must be convinced,
from the knowledge they have of his character and his friendship
for the soldiers, that every redress of real grievances within his
power will be granted to them.
I would wish you to meet them as soon as possible, that an end
may be put to this unhappy business.1
General St. Clair to Brigadier-General Wayne.
Morristown, January 9, 1781.
Dear Sir: —This will be brought to you by a person who has been
sent by Sir Henry Clinton with proposals to the discontented troops,
and was honest enough to bring them to me. In order that we
might be certain of their intentions with respect to the enemy, we
have thought it best to suffer him to go on with a message, and he
is to return here with the answer.
We have heard that they have already detained two who came
to them on the same errand. If this person should meet with the
same fortune, you will be pleased to have him discharged, if in your
power.
I am extremely anxious to hear how matters are going on, and
what prospect there- is of the affairs being terminated. I beg my
respects to Colonel Butler and Colonel Stewart, and hope soon to
have the happiness to see you in more agreeable situations.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
New Windsor, January 10, 1781.
Dear Sir:—Your favors of the 7th and 8th 2 instant, from Morris1
This was expected to full into the hands of the mutineers, and so worded
*i? they mis;ht expect the arrivul of the General.—Sote by General St. Clair.
2 >"ot fuund among the St. Clair Papers.
536 The St. Clair Papers.
town, have bith reached me in the course of this day. I can not
conceive how Major Fishbourn could have misunderstood me as to
my intention of going down. The postscript of my letter of the 3d
to General Wayne,1 which was added after I had consulted Governor
Clinton and the general officers, was to the contrary. Upon re
ceiving your letter of the 7th, I sent directions to General Heath to
assemble all the general officers, and officers commanding coqw, at
his quarters, to-morrow morning, where I shall .meet them. What
I have to propose is of too delicate a nature to commit to paper;
neither can I say, until I have had the meeting, whether it will be
prudent for me to go down towards Morristown. You shall hear
from me after the meeting is over. I think it appears, by the letter
which has fallen into your hands, that there has not been much, if
any, intercourse between the mutineers and Sir H. Clinton ; and, if
the future correspondence can be intercepted, it will embarrass the
British and the troops. You will have been the best judge of the kind
of answer which it would be proper to give to Sir Henry's message ;
but, as we had not force sufficient to wish to decoy him out, perhaps
it will have been most prudent to answer him in the negative.
I am certain that, in consequence of my letter of the 8»h to Gen
eral Wayne, every offer that ctfuld with propriety be made, has
been made.2 What further is to be done can be better determined
by you on the spot, than by me at this distance. The steps you
have hitherto taken are judicious and strictly proper.
Be pleased to thank the Marquis and Colonel Laurens for their
letters, which a press of business prevents me from answering.
If I do go down, it will be by Chester, Warwick, Colonel Sew
ard's, Davenport's Mill, and to Morristown. You will send ex
presses on that route, but do not let it be known that I mean to
take it.
1The following wns the postscript referred to:
"P. »S. —January 4th, 7 o'clock a. m.—Upon second thought, I am in
doubt whether I shall come down, because- the mutineers must have returned
to their duty, or the business be in the hands of Congress, before I could
reach you, and because I am advised by such of the general officers as I have
seen, not to leave this post in the present situation of things, temper of tho
troops, and distress of the garrison for want of flour, clothing, and, in short,
every tiling.''
*" At this distance it is impossible to recommend any particular line of
conduct, but only in general to observe, that such measures founded in
justice and a proper degree of generosity as will have .i tendency to con
ciliate or divide the men, appear most likely to succeed. Certain it is, that
should they finally go to the enemy they will be a considerable augmenta-
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 537
General Washington to General St. Clair.
New Windsor, 12tlv January, 1781.
Dear Sir: —The receipt of your letter of the 9th,1 inclosing one
from General Wayne, has, if possible, added to my embarrassments.
I had heard from General Sullivan and Lord Stirling, that the mu
tineers had delivered up the British emissaries immediately upon
their arrival at Princeton. From this I was in hopes that they had
precluded themselves from all assistance from that quarter, and that
the reduction of them by force, should matters come to extremities,
would not be difficult. But now, their conduct appears to me in
this light : they have made known the propositions offered by Sir
Henry Clinton only by the way of threat, and seem to say, if you
do not grant our terms we can obtain them elsewhere.
At the meeting with the general and field officers yesterday, it
was almost a unanimous opinion that their men might be depended
upon. I, therefore, gave directions for a detachment of one thou
sand men (tikis number should be exaggerated if spoken of), to be
prepared and held in readiness. If things are in a train of nego
tiation, as would seem to be the case from General Wayne's post
script, to move a force between Trenton and the enemy might create
suspicion in the minds of the mutineers and make them fly to the
enemy for safety. I do not think it prudent to write to the com
mittee of Congress, to Governor Reed, or to General Wayne, lest
my letter should be stopped ; I thmk, therefore, from a consideration
of the subject in every light, that it will be best for you to go down
to the Pennsylvania side, opposite to Trenton, and send for some of
the gentlemen over there. Inquire minutely into the situation of
affairs, and if there are no hopes of a reasonable compromise, get
from them an opinion of what ought ultimately to be done. If force
should be determined upon, the Governors of Pennsylvania and Jer
sey should instantly make arrangements for bringing out as many
of their militia as can be collected, while the detachment above
mentioned is marching from hence, that the intercourse between
Trenton and this place may be as expeditious as possible. Desire
Colonel Nelson to fix a relay of expresses from the neighborhood
tion of strength against us; or should they bo dispersed, their loss to the
service will be severely felt. Both these evils are, therefore, to bes avoided,
if there is any proper ground on which it can be done."— Washington ia
Wayne, Sth January.
1 Not found.
*•
538 The St. Clair Papers.
of Trenton to Morristown, and let the quartermaster at Morristown
continue them from thence to this place.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
New Windsor, January 15th, 1781.
Dear Sir:—I have duly received your favor of the 11th,1 to
gether with one from the committee of Congress of the 9th inst.
As I had just dispatched an express to you with my letter of the
12th, I have detained your messenger until this time in expectation
that something so decisive would have turned up as might have
fixed the line of conduct which we ought to pursue.
But nothing new having come to my knowledge which could give
sufficient ground for determination, since my last, I can only refer
you to it.
The detachment shall be held in readiness till I hear from you,
which I anxiously expect every moment. Indeed, nothing can be
of greater importance than to communicate with the utmost rapidity
every incident that may happen during the continuance of this un
happy affair.2
1 The letter is missing from the St. Cluir Papers. ,
2 When the news of the revolt reached Philadelphia, Congress appointed
a committee, consisting of General Sullivan, Mr. Witherspoon, and Mr.
Mathews, who were instructed to confer with President Heed on the sub
ject. The latter proceeded to Princeton and the committee to Trenton.
Meanwhile, the mutineers delivered up two emissaries sent by Sir Henry
Clinton, which showed their attachment to the American cause. These were
tried by a court, consisting of Generals Wuyno and Irvine, and Colonels
Butler and Stewart, and Major Fishbourn, condemned and executed on the
11th. The following proposals were offered to the mutineers by the com
mittee and President Reed :
"1. To discharge all those who had enlisted indefinitely for three years,
or during the war; the fact to be inquired into by three commissioners, to
be appointed by the Executive, and to bo ascertained, where the original en
listment could not be produced, by the oath of the soldier.
'-2. To give immediate certificates for the depreciation on their pay, and
to settle arrearages as soon as circumstances would admit.
"To furnish them immediately with certain specified articles of clothing,
which were greatly wanted."
These terms, which General Sullivan assured Washington were such ns
the critical situation of affairs warranted and justice dictated, were ac
cepted on the further stipulation that three commissioners should be deputed
by the line to act conjointly with the others in determining what soldiers
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 539
General Washington to General St. Clair.
New Windsor, Zd February, 1781.
Dear Sir:—The unexpected reduction of the Pennsylvania line1
from the late unfortunate affair, adds to the necessity of the greatest
attention to improve the measures adopted for recruiting it. I do
not know precisely what these are, but I am informed, in general,
that money is raising for the purpose, and that the recruiting serv
ice goes on with success. In order to have it conducted with regu
larity and activity, I am to request you will undertake to superBliould
be discharged. Thus the dispute, which h«tl its origin the previous
year, as mentioned in St. Clair's Correspondence, as to the real term of en
listment—for three years or for the war—was finally authoritatively settled.
It gave a great shock to the country, and tilled the minds of the chief of
ficers with apprehensions for the future. It is not at all likely matters would
have come to this pass and the cause placed in such jeopardy, hut for the
insubordination of leading officers of the Pennsylvania line on the occasion
of tho nppointment of Major McPherson to one of the regiments by Gen
eral Washington. The chief offender on that occasion was General Wayne
himself. The example set by him then was not forgotten by the sergeants
and the troops on the present occasion.
1 Under the arrangement entered into between the Congressional Com
mittee and the mutineers, advantage was taken and a majority of the men
returned home. This nearly destroyed St. Clair's division, and, as active
operations would not be undertaken until in May or June, an effort was
to be made to restore the line. The Pennsylvania Council notified St.
Clair, on the 5th February, that the State was prepared to aid in the work,
and requested him, through Secretary Matlock, to designate the places of
rendezvous, and order the officers to repair to their stations. It was an
nounced that, in order to meet traveling expenses, an additional sum of ten
pounds to each officer and six pounds to each subaltern would be allowed,
on account of depreciated money. St. Clair invited General Washington to
select the place of general rendezvous, with which he complied in the fol
lowing note :
New Windsor, 13rA Feb., 1781.
Dtnr Sir:— . . .
In my opinion, Bristol and that neighborhood will be, upon many ac
counts, most suitable and convenient, for this purpose. It is on the most
direct communication to the army, from whence the troops assembled mHy
be drawn without loss of time, upon an emergency. I would wish them to
be cantoned as compact as possible, for the belter preservation of discip
line, and on account of oxerciso and maneuver, both of which should bo
constantly practiced.
I hope to hear that the gout, of which you were apprehensive, has had
its turn, and left you in good health. I shall set out on Thursday for New
port, and shall probably he absent between a fortnight and three weeks.
540 The St. Clair Papers.
intend it, and will make your arrangements with the State accord
ingly. Inclosed you will find n copy of the instructions of the re
cruiting officers of the other parts of the army, which will also be
proper for the Government of those of your State.
Wo have found, from experience, that, by some means or other,
numbers of men are lost between the place of enlistment and that
of rendezvous. To prevent this, as far as possible, will be worthy
your particular attention.
I have permitted General Wayne to retire for a while. General
Irvine will immediately assist you in the execution of this business.
It seems a great part of the soldiers of your line have fraudulently
procured a discharge, by the precipitate admission of their oaths be
fore the papers relative to their enlistment could be produced. In
right, this can not exempt them from their engagements, and, after
what has happened, if it were thought expedient to compel the re
turn of such as being explicitly engaged for the war, have thus per
jured themselves, I should have no doubt of its justice, and should
not hesitate to take effectual and convenient measures to notify them
that if they did not immediately return to their duty, they should
be considered and treated as deserters. I perceive there are objec
tions to the measure, and, unacquainted ns I am with all the cir
cumstances, I can not competently judge of its propriety. I, there
fore, shall be obliged to you for your opinion.1
Let me hear, from time to time, of your progress.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
New Windsor, 22iZ February, 1781.
Dear Sir:—You will, by the time this reaches you, be acquainted
with the destination of the detachment under the command of the
Marquis de Lafayette,2 which, though as large as could possibly be
afforded from the troops in this quarter, is not so competent to the
certain completion of the object in view as I could wish. By some
accounts from Philadelphia, I am led to hojie that further assistance
1 For a reply to this letter, see letter to Washington under date of 2d
March.
•General Lafayette was provided with n detachment of about twelve hun
dred from the main army, and was instructed to proceed to Virginia to net
against the corps of the enemy under Arnold, in conjunction with the mili
tia, and some ships from the fleet of Chevalier Destouches, which had sailed
for the Jameg River on the 9th February from Newport.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 541
may be derived from the Pennsylvania line. If you find it practi
cable to form a battalion of eight companies of fifty rank "and
file each, three officers to a company, and two field-officers to a bat
talion, in such time as the Marquis shall think will answer his pur
pose, you will be pleased to do it, and put it' under his command.
The detachment will be but temporary. The nomination of the
field-officers I leave to you. It is possible that the battalion may be
formed, but not in time to embark at the Head of Elk with the
other troops. This will not be so material, provided it can be done
in a short time afterwards. That time, you and the Marquis will
determine. If the companies can not be completed to fifty each, I
would have them at forty rather than lose the reinforcement, or
even half a battalion of two hundred under the command of a
field-officer, rather than none. Transports can be provided and held
ready at the Head of Elk, should they not embark with the other
troops. The places of rendezvous of the first, second, fifth, and
sixth battalions are none of them very distant from Elk, and I
should imagine the detachment would be most readily and conven
iently formed from them. But this I leave to your judgment.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
New "Windsor, 26</t Febi-uary, 1781.
Dear Sir : —Congress, by a resolve of the 20th instant, have deter
mined that the Pennsylvania line, except Moylan's dragoons, and
the troops upon command to the westward, shall compose part of
the Southern army, and have directed me to order it to join the
army in Virginia by detachments, as they may be in readiness to
march. You will, therefore, in obedience to the above resolve, put
matters in a proper train to carry it into execution with all dis
patch possible. You will now, in case circumstances should permit
the detachment under the command of the Marquis to proceed down
the Chesapeake, not confine yourself to a single battalion of four
hundred men, as mentioned in mine of the 22d, but endeavor to
Bend as many as possible by so good and expeditious a conveyance.
I think it essential that one of the brigadiers should proceed to
Virginia with the first detachment that moves, and there be ready
to receive and form the remainder as they come on. There may be
greater necessity of an officer of rank being at hand, as the line,
from the late disturbances in it, will have lost somewhat of its dis
cipline. General- Irvine being employed in superintending the re
542 The St. Clair Papers.
cruiting business, the duty devolves upon General Wayne. I have
written to him on the subject.
i
General St. Clair to General Washington.
Philadelphia, March 2d, 1781.
Sin—Your Excellency's letters of the 3d aud 9th of February
came duly to hand, but I delayed answering them from an expec
tation that you were absent from the army, and in ease I had noth
ing explicit to inform you of with regard to the recruiting, that
business not having come before the Assembly until yesterday, al
though General Irvine, Gsueral Wayne, and myself, have constantly
attended to press them upon it. A committee have reported a plan
recommended by us, which is, in general, to call forth the number
of men required by assessing them upon the classes of inhabitants
under a very heavy penalty, and, at the same time, to carry on the
recruiting by voluntary enlistments. It is yet uncertain whether
the House will came into it, but it is a favorable circumstance that
it has met with the approbation of the Council.
It is certain that a great many of the soldiers obtained their dis
charges in a most flagitious manner, but nothing better was ex
pected from the alternative allowed them. I am, however, of opin
ion that no good consequences would flow from the attempt to pun
ish them.1 It was threatened by some of the officers, and has
driven a great many out of the State. They are too numerous, and
it would carry with it something like a breach of faith, which the
Government does not like to incur, and, though the measure was
certainly entered into hastily, it appeared to the gentlemen who
transacted it to be necessary.
Your Excellency's favor of the 22d came by express to Potts
Grove, the night before last, and I returned immediately to this
place to confer with the Marquis. You may imagine my chagrin
at not being able to comply with so small a request upon such an
occasion; but, after mature consideration it was thought imprudent
to attempt it, as none of the men have yet been settled with, nor to
this moment are the auditors appointed for that purpose, nor any of
the promises that were made them at Trenton complied with, and a
very few only of the furloughed men returned. Our number at all
the different places of rendezvous does not exceed five hundred, and
1See Washington's letter to St. Cluir, 3d February ante.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 543
those extremely discontented. I shall again press the Council and
Assembly to an immediate settlement of the accounts, aud order the
men on furloughs to join their regiments that your Excellency's or
ders of the 26th, which I have just received, may be carried into exe
cution as soon as possible. But I fear few or none can be got ready
in time to second the Marquis, as it is indispensable that they be
clothed aud settled with, and that provisions be provided for them
on their march. I can only promise that nothing on my part
shall be wanting to expedite it.
General St. Clair to the Board of War.
Philadelphia, March 4th, 1781.
Gentlemen:—As the troops of Pennsylvania are ordered to march
to Virginia by detachments as soon as they can be got in readiness,
it will be necessary that camp equipage he provided for them, and
sent fijrward to Yorktown as soou as possible ; but, as it will be
some time before the whole quota of the State can be raised, and I
am not certain what that will am\iunt to, I have to request that
tents, knapsacks, haversacks, camp-kettles, and blankets and can
teens, be got ready for two thousand men and sent to that place as
soou as may be, having hopes that in a fortnight a considerable
part of that number will be able to move. I shall take care to
give timely notice to the quartermaster if further provisions be nec
essary.
General St. Clair to the Speaeer 1 of House of Assembly.
Philadelphia, March 22, 1781.
Sir : —I beg leave to lay before you an extract from a letter of
General Irvine to me, dated Carlisle, March 14, 1781, which came
to hand yesterday : —'
"I think there is great defect in the mode of communicating the
laws or resolves. I mean by newspapers. Some counties never
hear of a single Act till the county member gets home— as a proof,
the commissioners of this county are only now making out the class
rolls for the first class. The regimental returns will show how slow
things go on. I do not think we shall be able to take the field much
before the first of June."
1 Frederick Muhleberg.
544 The St. Clair Papers.
The law the General refers to, is that passed last session for com
pleting the quota of the Federal army, which will be found to be, if
my information is right, in every other part of the State, as well as
Cumberland county, totally inadequate to that purpose. I mention
this to show the necessity of immediately adopting some other ef
fectual measure for speedily raising and completing the quota of
this State, and as they are to compose part of the Southern army,
the fate of that country may depend upon the exertions of this. It
is likewise very necessary that means be fallen upon to pay off the
arrears due to the soldiers, as I have it in command from General
Washington to send them forward by detachments as soon as possi
ble, and the sending troops to that country in a discontented mood
may be attended with consequences of a most disagreeable nature.
General St. Clair to President Reed.
April 3, 1781.
Sir:—I beg leave to acquaint you that I have received infor
mation from several cantonments of great uneasiness prevailing
among the soldiery, occasioned by the detention of their bounties
and the non-payment of the gratuity to the re-enlisted soldiers.1 It
has been represented to me, that unless they are soon made easy on
these heads, it is likely to end in general desertion. I hope I may
not be thought importunate, as I know the difficulties that exist re
specting money, and am sure that the Council are as anxious to
remove them as I could wish, but I should be wanting in my duty
if I neglected to communicate to them such information as I receive.
I must mention, also, the case of Colonel Moylan's regiment. The
General expects it to march with the detachment; they have not
more than fifty horses fit for service, and are in want of every kind
of equipment. The time of the furloughs granted at Trenton is
now expired. I shall call upon all those to whom they have been
granted, immediately to join' their regiments under pain of being
considered as deserters ; but the more effectually to enforce their re1
To this, President Reed replied from his residence on the s ime day :
"I have just received your favor, which is a melancholy confirmation
of the accounts received from the commissioners for recruiting, who repre
sent that they can get no money from the county treasurers, nor can the
commissioners of purchase get any to feed the troops, so that I fear we
shall, in a short time, experience some disagreeable effects. The treasury
here is exhausted by the various demands, so that Mr. 11. Henhoren can not
mako out money sufficient to pay the members of Assembly their wages."
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 545
turn, I could wish the magistrates in the different districts were
directed to make strict inquiry into the cases of all persons within
their districts who are or have been soldiers, and to commit such as
may be found with furloughs when the time has expired. I could
also wish that some printer in this city was directed to receive ad
vertisements for deserters.
General St. Clair to General Washington.
Philadelphia, April 6, 1781.
Sir:—My last to your Excellency was of the 2d of March, since
which an excruciating fit of the gout, which still deprives me of my
right hand, has rendered me almost totally incapable of business.
As soon, however, as I was able to bear motion, I had myself
brought down here to be at hand to forward the preparations for
marching the detachments, and to keep the Assembly in mind of
the necessity of recruiting the line, but can not boast of my success
in the last instance, as there is nothing yet done in it, and the ses
sion has already been drawn out to so great a length that I am very
apprehensive the House will rise without taking the matter up.
The detachment, which will consist of nine hundred and sixty
rank and file, properly officered to form three battalions, will march,
I think, in about ten days, as I have reason to hope that money will
be provided for them by that time. A sufficient quantity of cloth
ing for that number sets off to-morrow for the different cantonments;
and the arms and camp equipage will arrive at Yorktown, where
the troops are ordered to assemble, in the course of the succeeding
week. I have ordered the four pieces of artillery that are with
Colonel Proctor's regiment, with a proper detachment from it, to join
this body, as it is probable, from the circumstances of the 16th ult,
that General Greene may be in want of them. The route I intend
the whole shall pursue is from Yorktown by the head of Patapsco
and Alexandria to Fredericksburg, in Virginia, from whence Gen
eral Wayne will be best able to judge of the route he must follow to
join General Greene. After this detachment marches, we may
possibly collect three or four hundred more of the old soldiers, and
that I think is the extent we have any reason to reckon on, so that
unless the Assembly takes some very decisive steps the recruiting
business will very soon be closed in this State. Whatever may be
determined upon, I shall take the earliest opportunity to acquaint
35
546 The St. Clair Papers.
your Excellency with it, and propose to pay you a visit as soon as
able to ride.
Colonel Moylan'a regiment is in such a situation, that it must be a
considerable time before they can possibly move, having but eighty
men and fifty horses fit for service, in want of every equipment, and
no money in any of the departments to procure them.
An express arrived, last evening, from General Greene, who in
forms me that after laying three days at the iron works in expectation
of Lord Cornwallis' advancing, and preparing himself for his recep
tion, he received accounts of his having suddenly retreated towards
Cross Creek, leaving behind him all the wounded prisoners taken at
Guilford,1 and his own hospital. Colonel Stewart, of the' guards,
was killed in the action of Guilford. General O'Harra, Colonel
Tarleton, and Colonel Webster, wounded, and from every circum
stance it appears they have suffered very severely. Your Excel
lency must have heard of the arrival of the reinforcements in
Chesapeake. We have no accounts of any operations, except that
they are plundering the inhabitants in small parties on both sides of
the bay, some of which I am sure up as far as the head of Elk.
The inclosed is a return of Colonel Proctor's regiment. The can
tonments are at such a distance, and the conveyance so uncertain
that the returns are at hand very irregularly, but I shall endeavor
to have them sent on by the time and in the manner desired by the
Adjutant-General.
General St. Clair to General Washington.
Philadelphia, April 15<A, 1781.
Sir :—I have been favored with your Excellency's letter of the
8th inst., which has been in great part answered by mine of the
6th. In that, however, I was too sanguine as to the time when the
detachment would march, which I fear it will not do in less than
three weeks yet. The application from the State to Congress for
a loan of so much money as was necessary to put it in motion mis
carried, and there is now no hopes of any until a sufficient sum of
the new money ordered to be struck by the House of Assembly can
be got ready, which, the President informed me yesterday, would
yet require a fortnight; and as the re-enlisted soldiers and new
1The battle of Guilford Court-House, N. C, was fought on the 16th of
March. Although a defeat for General Greene, it was disastrous to the
British, as the sudden retreat towards Virginia above mentioned proved.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 647
levies have not received their bounties, nor the retained men the
gratuity ordered them ; and as one-third of the depreciated notes
is to be paid by commissioners at the different cantonments, it is .not
extravagant to allow a week more to these affairs. I do assure your
Excellency that nothing has been left undone, on my part, to for
ward the march of the troops, or to reassemble the scattered rem
nants of the line, and there is a perfect good disposition in the offi
cers of all ranks to promote the recruiting, but the ridiculous mode
that has been prescribed by the Council has, in a great measure,
put it out of their power. I can not help, however, being surprised
that General Wayne (which, from your Excellency's letter to him,
he must have done) should have given you expectations that the
detachment would march much sooner, which, had there been no
difficulty even about money, they could not have gone a day before
the time marked in my former letter, on account of the want of
clothing, arms, and camp equipage.
The Assembly baverisen and though they have not, as I suspected,
left the recruiting unnoticed, they have done very little better, hav
ing only made some loose resolves for continuing the recruiting by
voluntary enlistment under the direction of Council, and empower
ing them to raise the bounties as they may think proper, and that
recruiting parties shall be kept in the State until the quota is com
pleted, which I am sure will not happen in that way during this
war, should it last these fifty years. Council have not yet made
any order in consequence.
I very much suspect that I have set the number we may possibly
collect after the march of the detachment considerably too high in
my former letter, and I have no hopes at all from the recruiting,
but the detachment will be completed to ninety-six rank and file.
General Knox, with your Excellency's approbation, has, I see,
ordered a considerable addition of artillery. The guns and stores
will be in readiness, but Proctor's regiment is certainly not equal to
so many pieces ; and, if General Greene has not to spare, your Ex
cellency may think a further detachment from the corps of artillery
necessary.
I am very sensible of the necessity of great exertion from all
classes, but have but little hopes of seeing them ; such a listlessness
and inattention seems to have taken hold of the people that I doubt
if even the cannon of the enemy would rouse them. For my own
part, I feel very sensibly yet the influence of both duty and patriot
ism, and I have made such representations to our humble bodies as
I thought the nature of the case required, and beg leave to repeat
548 The St. Clair Papers.
that nothing in my power to second your Excellency's wishes shall
be wanting.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
New Windsor, April 2oth, 1781.
Dear Sir:—I have received your favors of the (5th and 15th. I
am sorry to find, from the last, that unavoidable obstacles have
been thrown in the way of the march of the first division of the
line at the time you expected. I can only recommend to you to
get them off as soon as possible, and in as good temper as possible.
It is essential that General Greene should be regularly advised of
the motions of those troops ; you will, therefore, be pleased (if you
have not already opened a correspondence with him) to inform him,
from time to time, of every circumstance relating to them.
Captain Craig, of Colonel Proctor's regiment of artillery, who is
stationed at Fort Pitt, has applied to me to have his company com
pleted. That can not be done in the present state of the regiment,
but you will be pleased to consult the commanding officer of it, and
let Captain Craig have as many men as will put his company on a
level with the others.
I imagine Colonel Harrison's regiment, Colonel Procter's, a de
tachment with the Marquis, and a strong Maryland company lately
gone from hence, will be sufficient to work the artillery that Gen
eral Greene will usually carry into the field with him.
General St. Clair to General Wayne.
[Instructions.] May 2, 1781.
Sir :—The parties from the several regiments which are to com
pose the first detachment, have orders to march from the canton
ments to Yorktown the moment the auditors have finished the settle
ments, respectively. You will, therefore, please to repair to Yorktown
as soon as conveniently may be, to make ihe necessary ar
rangements and take such measures as may prevent, as much as
possible, any delay at that place. You will please to take the com
mand of it upon yourself, and proceed, by the inclosed route, to
join General Greene with all the dispatch that the nature of the
case will admit of. Should any operations of the enemy render the
passage at Alexandria precarious, you are not to consider yourself
as bound by the route, but will make choice of such other place to
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 549
pass the Potomac where it may he done with safety, making as
little detour as possible.' As several of the parties must pass
through Lancaster and there be supplied with provisions to carry
them to Yorktown, your giving yourself the trouble to attend to
that article in your way may facilitate their march, and prevent dis
appointment. I wish you a prosperous journey, and all happiness.
P. S. —You will please to favor me with an account of the return
of the numbers you march with, and direct the brigade quarter
master to forward a return of the camp equipage and utensils re
ceived by him. Let me know, also, what number of arms were
sent on to York. If there is any surplus, they may be stored and
left under the care of the commanding officer at that place, as also
any surplus of blankets beyond that which completes the detachment.
General St. Clair1 to General Washington.
Philadelphia, June 16, 1781.
Sir:—Upon my arrival at this place I found the Assembly met,
and no apparent disposition amongst them to do any thing to for
ward the recruiting service; indeed, a passage in the President's
message, which represents the line as in respectable strength, seemed
calculated to induce them to believe it unnecessary. I, therefore,
thought it my duty to call their attention to that object, and wrote
to the Speaker of the House upon the occasion ; my letter was read,
the business immediately referred to a committee, and another appiinted
to bring in a bill. From the report of the first, we had
formed the most sanguine expectations that the line would have
been filled immediately, and the necessity of sending militia to Vir
ginia superseded ; but the bill which General Irvine has inclosed to
your Excellency is in a very different spirit, and nothing is to be
expected from it but disgusting the people. It is distressing to see
how thmgs go on here ; a considerable part, and much the most re
spectable, of the Legislature are disposed to do every thing that is
necessary and that circumstances will admit, but the majority, under
some mischievous influence, seem intent only on defeating the de1
On the 5th of June, General St. Clair addressed a very urgent appenl to
the Pennsylvania Assembly for funds and necessary legislation to complete
the enlistments. Ho said that the enemy were making such rapid advances
that, unless the most vigorous measures were taken, it would not only bo
impossible to afford proper support to the Southern States, but they might
soon have the mortification to feel the enemy in the he.irt of Pennsylvania.
550 Tht St. Clair Papers.
signs of the others, without regard to the general welfare or the
particular disgrace the State incurs.
The accounts from Virginia are vague and uncertain ; but Cornwallis
has a force much superior to the Marquis, and, it is to be
feared, will prevent the Baron [Steuben], who is at the Fork with
about seven hundred new levies and some militia, from joining him.
Tarleton and Simcoe have been detailed to attack him, and though
he may escape them, most probably the stores will fall into their
hands, or be destroyed. What his Lordship's designs are is hard to
divine, but, as yet, he does not seem to intend fixing himself in that
country, as I can not learn that he has, as yet, made one post, but is
moving on with his army towards the Potomac, and ravaging the
country below him with detachments. I sometimes think he de
signs for Pennsylvania, nor is it altogether improbable; for though
he has no force equal to a conquest, it would be a very effectual way
of counteracting your Excellency.
General Wayne joined the Marquis on the 9th instant. I have
no accounts from him since he left Yorktown. A letter of his of
that day came to hand a few days ago ; the inelosures I now trans
mit to your Excellency, though I doubt not he made similar reports
to headquarters. The deficiency has been occasioned by desertion
and sickness ; there now remain at the different cantonments about
one hundred men, most of whom are unfit for duty.
Your Excellency will oblige me by marking the precise time it
will be necessary for me to join the army. I would not wish to de
lay it a moment, but the state of Mrs. St. Clair's health (who I
found very ill, and still continues so) makes me desire to postpone
as long as the service will permit. I hope Mrs. Washington's health
is perfectly re-established, and request you will do me the favor to
present my compliments.
P. S. —General Irvine, who is very uneasy at the inactive state he
is obliged to remain in, has proposed to endeavor to raise some corps
of volunteer horse and lead them to Virginia. If it can he done,
it may be of general service by turning the attention of the better
class of people again to arms. I have encouraged him in it, and
hope it may meet with your Excellency's approbation.
General Greene to General St. Clair
Camp Bush River, S. Carolina, June 22, 1781.
Dear Sir : —I have received your favor of the 6th of Ma)'.
I am happy to hear that so resjjectable a body as eleven hundred
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 651
men are on their way to reinforce the Southern army ; and it would
give me particular pleasure to be informed that the second brigade
was in readiness to move, and that you were at the head of the di
vision.
I am persuaded you will use every means in your power to for
ward the business, and I rely much upon your assiduity and atten
tion. The critical situation of our affairs calls for every exertion.
The enemy are formidable in the field, and this army is reduced to
a mere shadow from hard service and severe action.
Notwithstanding all our difficulties, we have been favored with
some very important successes. The enemy is divested of all of
their posts in this State and Georgia, except Charleston, Savannah,
and Ninety Six. The last was closely besieged for near thirty
days, and we were upon the point of reducing it, when Lord Rawdon,
who has been reinforced from Europe, advanced to its relief,
and obliged us to raise the siege. . I lament that we were not more
successful in this enterprise, as the post is of great consequence to
the enemy, and our troops have been exposed to excessive labor
and annoyance in the attempt.
But these disappointments we shall ever be subjected to while the
enemy continue masters of the sea, and our force and means are so
incompetent.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
New Windsor, June 23, 1781.
Sir:—Yesterday I received your favor of the 16th. I am much
obliged by your care and attention for the public service. I, at the
same time, lament the small probability of success which you have
reason to expect from the representation you give of the disposition
of the Assembly of Pennsylvania. Some favorable circumstance,
or some adverse fortune, may very possibly yet draw forth their
exertions. Your zeal for the common cause, I dare say, notwith
standing these disagreeable prospects, will induce you to continue
your utmost endeavors for the general good.
General Wayne has given me a similar return with that you have
inclosed to me. I am sorry to observe the smallness of his num
bers. I hope, however, they will soon be increased.
Of the military stores you mention to have been left at Yorktown,
you will be pleased to order such as want repairs to be sent
to the laboratory at Carlisle, to be immediately fitted for use.
r
552 . The St. Clair Papers.
Those which are in order may remain at York, and be delivered for
the use of the next troops which may rendezvous at that place.
It appears somewhat strange to me, that our accounts of the oper
ations in Virginia are so vague and uncertain ; equally unaccount
able appear to me to be the designs of Lord Cornwallis from his
rapid and devious movements.' By his latter conduct, it would seem
that the effect of all his operations in North and South Carolina are
totally lost, and the enemy are likely again to be reduced to the pos
session only of Charleston.
The time of your joining the army must depend upon the ex
ertions of the State—their success in furnishing such number of
troops to their line as shall give you a suitable command in the field.
As soon as this shall be effected, I shall wish you to go on without
delay.
I am sorry to hear the ill state of health of Mrs. St. Clair. I
have the pleasure to inform you that Mrs. Washington is in a fair
way of recovery.
The army in this quarter is now taking the field. Their first point
of encampment is at Peckskill, where I expect to be joined by the
Count de Rochambeau, with his troops, which are on their march
from Rhode Island. I have wrote General Irwine on the subject of
his proposal.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
Headquarters near Dobbs' Ferry, July 1tM, 1781.
Dear Sir : —I have been favored with yours of the 24th ult. and
4th inst. I am pleased to find by the first that the Assembly of
Pennsylvania have at length passed a law which seems likely to pro
cure the number of men voted.
You certainly misunderstood me when you were at New Windsor,
if you conceived it was my intention that you should serve this cam
paign with the army in this quarter. I, at that time, foresaw the
difficulty there would be in providing commands for the general
officers who were already here, and which 1 have only been enabled
to do by appointing General Heath and Lord Sterling to the com
mand of wings, which are in fact no more than divisions, and which
also have their major-generals attached to them. There would be
an indelicacy, as you very justly observe, in sending you to Vir
ginia at present, because you must necessarily supercede Marquis
de Lafayette, who has had much trouble, and who appears to be
just now reaping the fruits of his labor; I can, therefore, only ad
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 553
vise you to remain in Pennsylvania a while longer, where you may
be very usefully employed in fixing the levies under the new law,
and at the same time have an opportunity of attending to Mrs.
St. Clair, whose situation I sincerely lament. Should General Greene
come into Virginia, the difficulty would cease, and you might go
there at once without any inconvenience.
General St. Clair to General Washington.
Philadelphia, July 22d, 1781.
Sir:—I have received your Excellency's letter of the 10th inst.,
and am very sorry that the state of the army and the situation of
affairs frill not permit my being employed this campaign in that
part of it under your Excellency's immediate command, and shall
therefore prepare myself for a southern march ; but there is no prob
ability that it can take place very soon, as there will be much dif
ficulty and delay in equipping the troops after they are raised, as
the State of Pennsylvania has no money and little credit, and there
is a great scarcity of the necessary articles of clothing. From the
present view I have of it, there seems little likelihood of any con
siderable body being in readiness much before the first of October;
perhaps something may turn up to render it then unnecessary.
The Invalid Corps is at last in motion ; nothing has delayed them
so long but the want of money, which Colonel Nichols has been in.
defatigable to procure, and has at last succeeded for such a sum as
has got them on board in tolerable temper. A day or two before
their embarkation, the inclosed list of charges against him were
exhibited1 to me, but as they could not be inquired into here, with
out detaining many of the officers, I thought it best to transmit
them to your Excellency. They have been communicated to him,
but he is not arrested upon them ; the taking him from the com
mand of the regiment at that time might have been inconvenient.
Lieutenant Bigham's court-martial has never come to hand, and he
remains here in a state of suspense. If your Excellency has de
cided upon it, will you please to direct it to be sent on. This will
be delivered by Major Duun, who, as I have very little employment
for him, wishes to be in a more active station until there is occasion
for him. I have given him leave of absence for a few weeks, and
if any thing happens that may require more gentlemen about your
1The Invalid Corps marched to West Point, where a formal inquiry was
had as to the charges, which were not sustained.
554 ' The St. Clair Papers.
Excellency than those of your own family, he will be a happy man
to have the honor of being employed, and I think your Excellency
may depend upon him. My most fervent wishes for your success
attend you—the most brilliant that can happen will not exceed them,
and wherever I am I shall always find myself interested in your
fortune.
P. S. —Should Lord Cornwallis return to New York with all or
the greater part of his force, will not the Pennsylvania levies be
most wanted with you? Will you please to let me know your
opinion upon that case?1 I believe you may expect all the infantry
that have horse will go to Carolina.
General St. Clair to Brigadier-General Irvine.
Lancaster, August 16, 1781.
My Dear General:—The alarm that my Lord Cornwallis has spread,
and which produced my last letter to you by Dr. Lyon, has brought
one. I thought then that the stroke at the prisoners that was feared
was barely possible, but, as such, ought to be guarded against ; and
the. Board of War detained me in town for a week, and at last con
sented to my going, under a promise to inform me when it might,
or whether it might, be proper to countermand the order for drawing
our people together. I was very glad to find, by your letter to Cap
tain Christie, which I met with and opened to-day, that you had
forbid the march of the troops at Reading, concluding from thence
that you would not now think it necessary to march those on the
west side of the Susquehanna. You will observe that I have di
rected the arms at . . [several lines' defaced]
than they will be equipped; however, Council arc doing what they
can. Woolen clothing it seems impossible to procure—only forty
suits are on hand ; but a number of hunting-shirts, which, though
not the most desirable uniform, is better than none. It seems that
a letter of mine, immediately after my return from headquarters,
you have not received. It was, not, however, of consequence—con
taining only an information that we were to make a southern cam
paign together. I had before regretted that you were destined to
1 Washington replied to the above letter on the 7th August at length. Re
ferring to St. Clair's request he said: "The movement of Lord Cornwallis,
with the troops under his command, will probably bo soon decided. On the
circumstances of this event may hang many of our future movements, of
which, so far as they reluto to your command, you will be duly notified."
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 555
that service. You may believe it was no very agreeable news to
me ; if any thing could make it in any degree less so, it was that
we are to make it to gather No news. Adieu.
General St. Clair to General Irvine.
Philadelphia, August 26, 1781.
' Dear Sir : —From the current report, and from the circumstances
that a considerable part of the army are in Jersey, and some of them
advanced as far as Trenton, it seems probable that some stroke is
meditated to the southward ; in which case, the General will cer
tainly expect that corps to be joined by the troops in this State. I
would, therefore, wish you to have all on the west side of Sus
quehanna in perfect readiness to move at a moment's warning. It
is at present my intention to draw them to Lancaster, expecting, if
my conjecture is right, that the whole will embark at the bead of
Elk ; and I shall to-morrow order the different articles of clothing
that arc provided to be sent to Lancaster, that the whole may be
distributed there. I am sorry, however, to inform you that it is
not sufficient for the few men we have, although the upper garment
consists of a hunting-shirt only. Should this arrangement not be
approved of, I will give you timely notice, and at any rate advise
when it will be proper to put the troops in motion.
Colonel Mentgez gave you, a few days ago, an extract from a
letter of the General to me. You will be pleased to give the most
pointed orders about the returns, and I shall be glad to know exactly
the amount of the two regiments and the recruits—the last, how
ever, I do not expect amount to much, if the people in these coun
ties, at least, have followed the example of those more interior.
I was favored with yours of the 15th. The first certain account
of the movements of Lord Cornwallis, I got from your letter to
Captain Christie, which I met with betwixt Reading and Lancaster
and opened. Your orders in both cases were perfectly correspond
ent with those I had given ; but I find a letter I had wrote you on
my return from headquarters must have miscarried ; it contained,
however, nothing of any consequence. I showed that part of yours
relating to the armorers 'to the Board of War, but they had given
their orders; they do not mean, it seems, to remove the stores, etc.
Whenever L receive any account from headquarters, I shall write
you again.
P. S. —The French fleet expected every moment. The arms,
556 The St. Clair Papers.
I Lope, are repaired, and should be glad they were sent to Lan
caster.
General "Washington to General. St. Clair.
King's Ferry, August 22d, 1781.
Dear Sir :—I have to request you immediately to assemble all the
recruits in the State of Pennsylvania at their respective places of
rendezvous, where they may be properly equipped to march, on the
shortest notice, to the southward ; and those recruits that are raised
in the State of Delaware, I wish you to inform whoever has the di
rection of them, that they assemble at Wilmington and must be
in the utmost readiness so as to march when they receive any
further orders.1
General St. Clair to General Irvine.
Pottsgrove,2 September 6, 1781.
Dear Sir:—In my last, I gave you my conjectures about the
movements of the army, and requested you to have the men on the
west side of the Susquehanna in readiness to march to Lancaster
and to send the arms to that place, expecting that they would
march from thence to the head of the Elk. I am now to inform
you that they are to march by land to the southward, in con
sequence of which they will rendezvous at Yorktown, as soon as
camp equipage can be scut on for them, which, together with the
clothing, I am in hopes to accomplish by Sunday or Monday next;
and, if tho arms have not already been sent to Lancaster, you will
please to countermand the order. The General left Philadelphia
yesterday with the first division of the French troops, and was pre:eded
by General Lincoln with a division of Americans, and the
second division of the French troops marched to-day. This moment
a gentleman arrived from town with this day's paper, in which is a
letter of the General's to the President of Congress, from Chester, in
forming that he had just received the account of the arrival of the
•In attempting to carry out the above order, Qeneral St. Clair found that
the paymaster did not have the necessary funds, and he thereupon applied to
Congress, through Hon. Themas McKcan, President, for assistance in rais
ing the money.
* Pottsgrove, Philadelphia County, where St. Clair resided for several
years.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 557
French fleet in the Chesapeake, consisting of twenty-eight sail of
the line, exclusive of the Rhode Island squadron, which had not
then joined. It is added to a letter from General Gist, that they
had taken a British frigate at the mouth of York River, and landed
three thousand men on the south side of James River, so that it
seems highly probable that Lord Cornwallis is in the toils, and
can not escape. Lord Rawdon, too, was taken in packet from
Charleston.
It is very mortifying that we should have no chance for a share
in this business—it certainly must be over before we can get up, but
we may possibly get in at the death before Charleston. Adieu ; I
hope to see you soon, though I am not without my fears that the
want of money may delay us longer than I think for, and am, etc.
P. S. —Pray order a return to be sent me specifying the number
of men that have been furnished by the classes.
General St. Clair to General Irvine.
Pottsgrove, September 14, 1781.
Dear Sir:—Your favor of the 1st, by Mr. Duncan, came to hand
two days ago, and, on the evening of the same day, I received that
by Major Moore, inclosing the court-martial. He had sent it for
ward to General Mifflin, who had never thought of it. I am sorry
it has been delayed so long, for, when punishment follows crimes so
slowly, the effect of it is, in a great measure, lost.1 I issued an
order yesterday approving the sentences, and directed Nagle and
Gill to be hanged at such time and place as you think proper, and
pardoned the others that were condemned to death, and ordered the
punishment to be inflicted on the others, except Charles Kelly, to
whom I have remitted it.
I find I was much mistaken about the time when the camp equip
age and equipments would be got away from Philadelphia—a thous
and obstructions have come in the way, and, what is most provoking,
1It would seem, from the following order, which I find in the handwrit
ing of General St. Clair, directed to General Irvine, that military trials then
were almost as much delayed as civil trials of the present day :
(Without date) 1781.
Sir: —I find in the report of the guard this morning, a man confined two
and forty days. Unless there is something very particular that prevents it,
you will please to order a court-martial for his trial, and the other prisoners
who are accused of desertion.
558 The St. Clair Papers.
obstructions that might have been easily removed or avoided—in
deed, they appear to have been laid with a design to retard us—
however, by Monday every thing will set out, and the detachment
will be ordered to York by the time these may arrive. One month's
pay in specie will be paid, which is alf I could obtain, but there is
every reason to believe it will be regular in future. I do not doubt
but the detachment in Virginia may be in want of some articles of
clothing, but their distress can not be such as it is represented, or
very little care has been taken of them—indeed, these representa
tions were made to me before they reached Potomac River ; but, be it
as it may, I can do nothing for them at present. Colonel Butler
would have been very acceptable to me, but it is Colonel Craig's
tour of duty and he will go on it. Please present my compliments
to Colonel Butler. I have received his letter, and will answer it by
the first opportunity ; at present I have not time.
General St. Clair to Major Fountxeroy.
Philadelphia, September 19, 1781.
Sir:—On receipt of this you will immediately put your corps in
motion for this plaoe—every man and horse that is able to move,
and take provisions at Lancaster to bring them here.
The exigency is pressing, and I request that not a moment may
be lost. If your clothing is not arrived and you should meet it on
the road, which I wish you to be attentive to, you must either bring
it back or distribute it where you meet it, as may be most convenient.
If the last, it will be the best, as these people will return with greatreluctance.
President Reed to General St. Clatr.
Philadelphia, September 21, 1781.
iSir :—In the present situation of affairs, I should be happy in
being assisted with your good judgment and advice in forming such
arrangements as may be most effectual for drawing forth the strength
and resources of the State in the most effectual manner, and con
certing a previous general plan for this purpose, and defending this
city.
I shall, therefore, beg the favor of your company in Market street
at 1 o'clock, to meet a few other gentlemen proper to be consulted
on such an occasion.
Correspondence, ^Addresses, Etc. 559
Genebal St. Clair to General Washington.
Philadelphia, September 29th, 1781.
Sir : —I have been honored with your Excellency's letter of the
15th instant,1 which came to hand on the 26th. Previous to the
receipt of it, Congress had ordered me to draw all the levies of this
State to Philadelphia, from an apprehension that strongly prevailed
and some intelligence they credited, that Sir Henry Clintou, with a
body of about five thousand men, intended, by way of diversion to
your Excellency's operations, or to counterbalance your success, to
visit this city and either plunder or destroy it. It appeared, in
deed, to me a very improbable movement, for, though it might have
been possible for him to force his way through Jersey to the banks
of the Delaware, the passage of that river might have been ren
dered doubtful, and the Jersey militia with the troops General Heath
might throw down to their assistance would have made a retreat
very difficult. If he attempted it by water, the difficulty of return
ing was increased, and the danger of losing all his ships added to it.
Your Excellency's letter was immediately communicated to Con
gress, and this day they have repealed the order and left me at lib
erty to join the army, which I shall do with as much expedition as
possible, and, I hope, I need not assure your Excellency that the
being detained here in a state of idleness when the army is in the
field has been a most mortifying circumstance, and what I would
have studiously avoided had the prospects been ever so unpromis1
The letter of General Washington referred to, contained an earnest ap
peal lor more troops to assist him in his operations against Cornwallis. It
exhibited a good deal of impatience. He could not understand why the re
cruits for the Pennsylvania line sheuld be held back for clothing or equip
ments, while others were 'doing duty in the field, and combatting almost
every distress imaginable in the want of every necessary." He, therefore,
ordered the troops to be marched forthwith by water to the James River,
Virginia. The letter of St. Clair explains why the troops had been detained.
Congress bad become alarmed, fearing lest Sir Henry Clinton sheuld make
a descent on Philadelphia, and refused to let St. Clair or the recruits leave
the State. Following is the order in the case:
" By the United Statet, in Congress Assembled :
"Ordered, That if ajor-General St. Clair cause the levies of the Pennsyl
vania line in Pennsylvania, to rendezvous at or near Philadelphia, with all
possible expedition."
Under this order the troops had been collected at Philadelphia, but upon
the receipt of the peremptory letter of General Washington before referred
to, and the representation of General St. Clair, the order was rescinded, and
the troops immediately marched to join the army.
560 The St. Clair Papers.
ing. They are now so favorable as might tempt forward the least
inclined to the service. Neither has there been any neglect to for
ward the equipment of the detachment. The delay has arisen from
cruel necessity ; their march, however, will be rather expedited by
their having been brought here, as it will render wagons needless,
which I believe the quartermaster would not have been able to pro
cure, nor has Mr. Morris had it in his power to give them one far
thing, which has so soured both officers and men that I dread the con
sequences. The Assembly have passed a law to raise money for the
recruiting service upon the delinquents under the former law; it
will be some time, however, before it will be produced. The place
for carrying it on I expect to settle with Council to-morrow, and
shall put the execution of it under the direction of Colonel Hamp
ton, as General Irvine is ordered to Fort Pitt.
P. S. —A considerable body of the militia are encamped at New
town ; the whole of the city, and counties of Chester, Philadelphia,
and Bucks, are called out. Sir Henry Clinton is upon Staten
Island with about five thousand men, and has removed the cannon
from the battery of York. Admiral Digby is arrived with three
ships—a ninety, and two seventy-fours. The Princessa suffered so
much in the action that she is laid up in the East River—the Terri
ble was abandoned and set fire to, and another seventy-four is still
missing.
General St. Clair to Mrs. St. Clair.
Headquarters before York, Va., October lGth, 1781.
Dear Madam : —I take the opportunity of an express to acquaint
you that I arrived here last night after a journey of nine days, dur
ing which nothing of any consequence happened, and we were lucky
enough to have no rain during that time, which has been, however,
a misfortune to the country, and you know I have public spirit
enough to bear easily some personal inconveniences where the inter
est of the community is concerned, and should, therefore, have
borne a good ducking with much sang froid. Lord Cornwallis has
not yet given up the ghost, but he will be now constrained to sur
render, and I think myself very fortunate to have got up before it
took place, more especially as I find the command of the American
army vacant for me.
I hope your health continues, and that you will be careful to pre
serve it. Give my love to all the children, and believe me to be,
with much affection, etc.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 561
General St. Clair to Caitain Gerlach.1
Camp, near Yore, October 25, 1781.
Sir :—By the bearer, one of my aids, yon will receive the papers
laid by you hefore his Excellency, General Washington, relative to
the goods and clothing brought by you in the flag-vessel General de
Reidesel, which have been submitted by him to a board of general
officers; and, as it has been made clearly to appear to them that the
vessel was diverted from her proper voyage and part of the cargo
applied to purposes not only different but contrary to those for
which the passport was grauted, your request to proceed with them
to the German Convention troops can not be complied with. The
goods, according to the custom of nations and the laws of war, are
forfeited, and you are desired to deliver them forthwith to the
clothier of the American army, who has orders to take them into
his possession.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
[Instructions.] Near Yore, in Virginia, October 29, 1781.
Sir:—The detachment of which you will have the command, for
1 Captain Gerlach, deputy quartermaster to the Brunswick troops, was in
charge of a flag-vessel, General de Iliedesel, having on hoard clothing and
provisions for the Convention troops. He touched at Portsmouth, where a
British General gave permission to British Commissary Hooksby, who was
included with him in the passport, to dispose of other goods that had been
shipped on the vessel to the troops at that place. When Lord Cornwallis
arrived there, Gerlach applied for permission to proceed with the clothing for
the Convention troops, but was refused, his Lordship considering the vessel as
under the protection of the flag. The vessel was afterwards ordered to York,
at which place the clothing and provisions intended for the Convention troops
were delivered to the garrison during the seige. At the time of the capitula
tion, Captain Gerlach asked Cornwallis to make provision for the goods
brought for the Brunswick Convention troops, who declined, and advised
him to lay the matter before General Washington. He did so, and General
Washington referred the business to a board of officers, of which General
St. Clair was president. It was decided that the protection due to the flag
was lest by permitting goods not embraced in the permit to be shipped to
the British army actively engaged in the field, and, consequently all the pub
lic property was forfeited, as well as the private merchandise. The clothing
thus forfeited was valued at more than £15,000, a part of which the Colonial
Treasurer Morris agreed to take. The sum paid each officer in the army be
fore Yorktown, £20. St. Clair suggested that bills ho drawn accordingly. r
36
562 The St. Clair Papers.
the southward, is to consist of the Pennsylvania, Maryland, and
Virginia Continental troops.
You will march them by the most convenient route, and in the
most expeditious manner, without fatiguing the troops, towards
Wilmington, in North Carolina, of which, or other posts in that
State, you will endeavor to dispossess the enemy, if their situation,
from the intelligence you shall receive as you advance, shall, in
your judgment, render it practicable and advisable. If it does not,
you will continue your march to the Southern army, and put your
self under the command of Major-General Greene.
As Wilmington, and other places in North Carolina, may cease
to be objects, from a change of circumstances in the States to the
southward of this, it will be necessary for you to open an immedi
ate communication, by letter, with General Greene, and govern
yourself by his advice and orders; and it may be well to communi
cate, in confidence, to the executive of the State of North Carolina
the enterprise against Wilmington, that you may procure such in
formation and aid as it may be in their power to give.
For ordnance and stores, and for the means of transportation
and other matters in the quartermaster's department, you will con
sult General Knox and Colonel Pickering, and will make your ar
rangements with the commissary or State agent for supplies of
provision.
P. S. —If there are any men upon detachment, they are to be
called in and marched with their regiments. A sufficient Lumber
of officers must he left to carry on the sick and invalids as fast as
they recover. Some good field-officers should remain to superintend
the business.
General St. Clair to Governor Nelson.
Camp, at Richmond, November 9, 1781.
Sir:—I am sorry to be obliged to trouble you in your present in
disposition, from which, however, I am happy to hear you arc re
covering.
Having left York with a very large convoy of military stores
and a considerable train of artillery for the southward, with horses
scarce able to carry themselves, but which were the best could be
procured, and flattered with the expectation that I could be supplied
in this State, I have reached this place, but on application to the
council, on that account, have been informed that the authority of
your Excellency was absolutely necessary (a sufficient number of
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 563
councilors not being assembled to do any act of themselves). Fifty
horses, at least, must be exchanged here, and theu it will be with
difficulty I shall be able to proceed. I have, therefore, to request
your Excellency to grant an impress warrant for that number, and
it you should think proper to make it include a greater, you may be
assured that a wanton use will not be made of it. If your Excel
lency can not comply with the request, I .--hall be reduced to the ne
cessity of taking horses where they can be had as the others fail,
which will be attended with much inconvenience and delay ; besides,
the circumstances of the people from whom they may be taken can
not be attended to, and the disgust that attends all acts of mere
power will rankle in their minds, and may, hereafter, impede the
public service.
The object of my march is important, and requires all possible
dispatch, and I am sure you will give every assistance in your
power.
General St. Clair to General Washington.
• Richmond, November 14, 1781.
Sir : —On the afternoon of the 9th instant I arrived at this place,
and this day will have all the troops and stores over the river. You
will, doubtless, be surprised at the time that the passage will have
taken up, and, indeed, it has been a very mortifying delay to me;
but notwithstanding that Major Clayborne, the quartermaster-gen
eral for the State, had been sent forward to make the necessary
preparations to give us dispatch, I found not the smallest provision
was made either for that purpose, or to procure forage for our
horses, and I have been forced to get on the best way I could with
the common ferry-boats, only one of which would take in a wagon.
The quartermasters seem to be every-where a very useless set of
people, but peculiarly so here. I could not even obtain one of them
(and they are numerous) to go forward to Petersburgh, that the same
difficulty might not again meet us there; however, means are taken
to prevent that happening. Your Excellency knows the wretched
condition in which the horses were when I left York, particularly
those that drew the pieces, and I mentioned the hopes I had of
meeting with some assistance from the Government here ; unfortu
nately, the Governor is too sick to attend to business, and there is
neither council nor assembly. However, sixty horses arrived last
night from Annapolis for General Greene's army ; these I must de
tain, and, by means of them, I shall be able to get forward without
564 The St. Clair Papers.
seizing from the inhabitants, which I must otherwise have been
obliged to do, and from which I am glad to be relieved, both on ac
count of the unequal manner in which the burden falls, and the
disgust it creates.
On the 10th, I sent an express to Colonel Febiger, at Cumber
land Court-house, directing him to put the Virginia troops, which I
expected would at least have amounted to five hundred men, in mo
tion for Taylor's Ferry, and yesterday received the inclosed letter in
return, by which your Excellency will see that the utmost lean ex
pect of them is one hundred and fifty men, which will make General
Gist's brigade about five hundred, and, with General Wayne's, may
enable us to bring twelve hundred men to action. I have inclosed
the returns for your own particular satisfaction.
The accounts I have from Carolina are from General Jones, of
the 9th instant. The enemy still occupy Wilmington—their force
about four hundred British and six hundred Tories; they have
erected some works about the town, and have a block-house at a
bridge over the Northeast River, about ten miles above it. About
two thousand militia have taken post on the south side of Cape
Fear River, with a view to prevent the enemy from crossing by laud
to Charleston
General St. Clair to General Greene.
Richmond, November 14, 1781.
Sir:—I have the honor to acquaint you that I am now on my
march r with the Pennsylvania and Man'land troops, to join your
army, aud shall leave this place to-morrow for Petersburg and Tay
lor's Ferry, at which I propose to cross the Roanoke. The route I
shall afterward pursue through North Carolina is not at present
fully determined, and will depend upon such intelligence of the
force and situation of the enemy in that country as I may receive;
for should it be such as offers a probability of, making a successful
stroke at them en passant, I shall do it, and join you as soon after as
possible. Whenever I shall have fixed upon it, I shall take care to
give you as early notice as I can, and it is not improbable but you
may have it in your power to co-operate with me. But as from our
successes in this State, there may have happened a total change of
circumstances in the Southern States, you will oblige me much by
communicating what may have come to your knowledge, and I shall
be happy to receive your orders and advice.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 565
1
General Rutherford1 to General St. Clair.
Wilmington, November 18, 1781.
Dear General:—I have been informed you are marching to the
southward with a body of Continental troops, and that you intended
to take this place in your route.
I am happy to inform you that the glorious event of the 17th
ult. in Virginia has probably extended its influence to this post,
seeing the enemy evacuated it with great precipitation on the 14th
inst. , supposed to be ordered to reinforce Charleston.
This circumstance may, perhaps, induce you to alter the route of
your army. This country has suffered so extremely whilst under the
enemy's influence, that it would be scarcely possible to subsist an
army here, even for a short time. The bridges, which are numerous
in these parts have also been destroyed ; rehiring them will be a
business of time. I shall hold post here a few days until the enemy
are entirely gone, as some of their vessels are yet seen at the mouth
of the harbor. Whether detained by the weather, or seeing vessels
off, we can not tell, but we flatter ourselves they can hardly reach
Charleston.
I shall with pleasure receive your orders, if you think proper to
write me, and shall also convey you the earliest notice of every
event which may appear to interest the public welfare in these
parts.
Perhaps you will find it most convenient to direct your march
past Cross Creek, as I have ordered provisions to be driven and col
lected at that post, and others adjoining, purposely to supply your
army.
General St. Clair to General Washington.
Taylor's Ferry, November 26ih, 1781.
• Sir:—On the 22d instant I arrived at Williamsborough, in North
Carolina, to which place I had gone in advance of the troops (leav
ing them to be conducted from Petersburgh by General Wayne), in
order to settle the route it would be proper to pursue, and take the
necessary measures fur provisions.
1Griffith Rutherford, appointed a brigadier by tlio Provincial Congress,
in April, 1776; commanded a brigade in the battle near Camden, August,
1780, where ho was t.iken prisoner, and, having been exchanged, commanded
in North Carolina when the British evacuated Wilmington. After the war,
he removed to Tennessee, where he died about 1794.
566 The St. Clair Papers.
A report had prevailed, for a day or two, that the enemy had
evacuated Wilmington, and there I received such information re
specting it as left no manner of doubt of the fact, which happened
on the 14th instant, two large ships, which lay in the mouth of Cape
Fear River, having taken the garrison on board, which, no doubt,
arc gone to" Charleston. This circumstance leaves me at liberty to
take the most direct way to join General Greeue, which I shall do
with as much expedition as possible by Salisbury, Charlotte, and
Camden, which, though not absolutely the nearest route, is never
theless, from the best information I have been able to procure, much
the easiest and most plentiful, and by following of which time will
be gained. As the evacuation would have taken place at all events,
it is fortunate for the troops that it happened so early, as they would
have been exposed to much difficulty in a march through a very
barren country, intersected by many rivers that are not fordable.
Whether I should reckon it fortunate for myself, or not, I am not
so certain. But I am always satisfied with what produces any ad
vantage to my country, and another State being freed from the
power of the enemy is a circumstance of no little importance at this
juncture. It has also freed me from an uneasiness that hung upon
my mind, that I might probably find them so posted as not to have
it in my power to dislodge them, and be reduced to the alternative
of an uncertain assault, or that of leaving them unmolested.
. Since I sat down to write, a letter has come to hand from Colonel
Febiger, by which I am informed that I can expect no part of the
Virginia troops, as they arc not in a condition to be marched at
present. It also contains the copy of a letter, or memorial, from
the officers to him, on their being made acquainted with the orders
I had sent for immediately marching to this place all the men that
were equipped, which I take the liberty to inclose. It is true that
they have reason to complain, but it pains me that they should
take such means and such an occasion to express it; and I was
much surprised to see Colonel Posey's name to the memorial. I
have wrote to Colonel Febiger, and taken no notice of the receipt
of bis letter, desiring him to halt the detachment I had ordered un
til the whole are in readiness, as it is now too late fur them to join
me, and, from a change of circumstances in North Carolina, it is
not so necessary.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 567
General St. Clair to Colonel Davy.
Williamsborough, N. C, November 2Slh, 1781.
Sir:—The enemy having left Wilmington has determined mo
to pursue a different route to South Carolina than that I had in
contemplation, and I have to request that you will direct provisions
to be laid in for three thousand men, on the road from this place to
Camden, by the High Rock Ford, Guilford, Salisbury, and Charlotteburgh.
The particular places I can not so well point out, where
our day's marches will end, not being perfect master of the dis
tances, but the general direction to the High Rock Ford will be
Harrisburgh, Colonel Stephen Moore's, Caswel Court-house, and
Henry Williams's. We shall want provisions, bread especially, at
as many places on our march as it can be laid in with any conven
ience, as we have not the means to carry above one or two days' sup
ply with us. The intermediate places between Guilford and Char
lotte I have not mentioned, but doubt not you will Ik; able to direct
the commissioners to make deposits for us, where it is proper and
convenient.
General Washington to General St. CLAra.
Philadelphia, 30th November, 1781.
Dear Sir:—I have received your favor of the 14th instant, and
am very sorry to observe the difficulties and imjiediments which
have attended the inarch of the troops under your command ; they
are such as I feared, but such as I trust the resources of your genins
will surmount.
The returns you inclosed I am sorry to see so small ; the deficiency
in numbers must be made up in the vigor of your operations. Your
prospects against Wilmington, I think, are not unpromising, on the
ground you mention—though there is no accounting for the events
of war. If your attempt should fail, whatever may be the censures
of the people at the moment of the event, }et, I doubt not that
your character will eventually obtain that justice which I flatter
myself your conduct will ever merit, an instance of which you have
already had in the course of this war.
Inclosed you will find extracts from the resolutions of Congress
on the occasion of our late success in Virginia. I transmit them to
yoy, to be communicated to the troops under your command, that
they may know the sense in which Congress are pleased to estimate
their late services.
P
568 The St. Clair Papers.
Colonel Febiger's return of Virginia troops appears to me very
extraordinary. I fear that a dislike of the Southern service, or
some other reasons, have operated to lessen their numbers beybnd
what ought to be. I wish you, sir, to write to him in the most
pressing manner, to bring on every man engaged for a permanent
term, and who is possibly able to march, and let him know that no
excuse can possibly be admitted for unnecessary detentions.
General Greene to General St. Clair.
Headquars Round O. , South of the Edlsto,
December 18</i, 1781.
Dear Sir:—From intelligence received, I have reason to believe
that the enemy mean to make a push into the country to destroy
the forage ; to prevent which, I have to request that you will march
on with all possible dispatch without injury to the troops, and bring
with you thirty thousand cartridges as a supply for this army. You
will move by McCord's ferry, on the Congaree, Orangeburg, and
Ferguson's Mill, on the Edisto to this place.
I have received your letter of the 14th of November, dated at
Richmond, but as Captain Pendleton, one of my aids-de-camp, was
charged with instructions and a letter to you,1 I thought an answer
would be unnecessary.
General St. Clair to General Washington.
Camp near Osborne's, February 4tJi, 1782.
Sir :-»-Your very obliging letter of the 30th of November, camo
to hand about ten days ago, and the Resolve of Congress was com
municated to the troops, with which they appeared to be highly
satisfied.
Nothing could have been more acceptable than the kind manner
your Excellency has been pleased to speak of my conduct. I do,
indeed, aspire to your approbation, and do flatter myself that in all
events, whether fortunate or otherwise, I shall never do any thing
to forfeit your esteem.
1 Cuptuin N. Pendleton, aid-de-camp, sent a message to General St. Clair,
from Warsaw settlement, November 24th, by which he conveyed the wishes
of General Greene, which were, that he would leave his heavy baggage and
stores, and all of the artillery except four pieces, and hasten to his assistance.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 569
I joined General Greene on the 3d of January, after a march of
fifty-seven days, during which we had a great deal of bad weather,
yet, notwithstanding, averaged about eleven miles for each day,
without fatigue to the troops, who performed it without murmur
or discontent, and, since our arrival, the enemy have not shown their
noses, and I believe are impressed with the idea that my detachment
is a very great one.
The situation of my private affairs requires my attention to
them this summer, which, if I do not give, they must go to absolute
ruin. I, therefore, propose to leave this country with that view,
about the beginning of April, if circumstances will admit it, and I
think it highly probable that if we have no opportunity to fight the
enemy before that time, it will not happen at all, and that they will
either evacuate the country entirely, or content themselves with
holding the possession of Charleston, until a treaty of peace shall
take place, an event all the officers think very near. I hope we
shall not think it so near as to neglect the necessary preparations for
continuing the war, which is much to bo feared, but which I hope
will be prevented by your Excellency having your residence this
winter in Philadelphia. Congress, lam informed, have lately vested
your Excellency with power to employ such general officers as you
may think proper, the others to retire upon half-pay until called for.
I am very loth to leave the army whilst the war continues, and yet
I do not think I can possibly return to this country ; not from any
dislike to the service here, but simply from the situation of my
family and affaire. I could wish that your Excellency would not
absolutely determine for my return, before I have the pleasure to
see you, or that you will hear from me on the subject again.1
General Harmar to General St. Clair.
Camp Ashley Hill, S. C, September 29th, 1782.
Dear General:—In consequence of the resolution of Congress of
1 General St. Clair commanded the lines of investment around Charleston,
while in South Carolina, but the dreary business of a siege brought no stir
ring events worth recording. Correspondence was carried on with Colonel
Small and Major Prevost. of the British army, which bore chiefly on com
munications between the beleagured Tories and their friends in the country
Frequent attempts at imposition finally led to an order forbidding all inter,
course.
In the month of May. St. Clair returned to Philadelphia, being compelled
thereto by the embarrassed state of his finances.
570 The St. Clair ropers.
the 7th of August last, directing a reform of the army to take place
on the 1st of January, 1783, 1 do myself the honor of inclosing you
a return of the non-commissioned officers and privates belonging to
the Pennsylvania line, specifying the number enlisted for the war,
and those whose times shortly expire. Perhaps you miiy judge it
necessary to lay this return before the Secretary of War, in order
that he may be enabled to make his arrangements accordingly. A
list of our officers, with their determination to continue in service
or retire, I have -handed in to General Greene, which I apprehend
will be transmitted to you by this conveyance.
Since ,your departure from this army, we have frequently ex
perienced a want of provisions, chiefly owing to the neglect of the
State Commissary, but are now agreeably relieved with beef toler
able good and plenty.
Sickness rages to an amazing degree ; in the course of this month
we have buried near one hundred men, with the cursed disorder,
ague and fever, incidental to the climate. The sweet, delicious
Northern breeze I am panting after, and long to snuff the fragrant
gale. We have been in great hopes of the enemy evacuating
Charleston for this month past, they have certainly made every
preparation for embarking, and I believe now only wait the arrival
of transports. Had they ere tin's arrived, the autumnal equinox
would have prevented their going. The 20th of October, I set down
as the day we are tc enter the town—a joyful day it will be!
Our present position is about sixteen miles from Charleston, with
our left to the Ashley, and reckoned by the inhabitants as healthy a
spot as is in South Carolina, but we are prejudiced against it; the
climate at this season breathes nothing but disorder, and ill agrees
with Northern constitutions.
You, no doubt, have heard the unfortunate fate of Colonel Lau
rens.; he was killed the 27th of last mouth, in a conflict with a de
tachment of the enemy foraging in the Combahee River. His fall
is greatly lamented.
I shall be happy in being honored with a line from you.
Colonel Harmar to General. St. Clair.
Camp Ashley Hill, Decemba- 16, 1782.
Dear General:—I had the pleasure of addressing you per Lieu
tenant Harper, on the 29th of September last, since which we have
been in continual expectation of the evacuation of Charleston.
Coriespondence, Addresses, Etc. 571
That joyful event took place the day before yesterday. At 8 o'clock
in the morning, the light infantry companies, the legion and two
six-pounders, under command of Brigadier-General Wayne, took
possession of the town. The army still keeps its old position.
What our future destination will be is yet unknown.
Orders have arrived from the Secretary of War, to form the
Pennsylvania troops into one regiment; the formation has taken
place, and General Greene has ordered the officers present upon the
spot to be arranged ; inclosed you will please to receive a copy of
the arrangement. This strikes at the principle of seniority, and
must displease the senior captains and subalterns in the State. My
mode of arranging, upon a supposition that we raise two regiments
only, would be thus :
The oldest captain in the first regiment.
The next oldest in the second regiment, and the same rule to be»
adopted with the subalterns.
But the grand objection to this arrangement would be that the
troops would remain without officers; therefore, General Greene, to
avoid fluctuation, has thought proper to arrauge the officers here
upon the spot, and his intention is that the arrangement should be
permanent.
In consequence of the resolve of Congress of the 7th August last,
which directs a reform of the army to take place on the 1st of Jan
uary next, and that the staff officers shall be taken from the retir
ing officers, I have resigned my post of Adjutant-General of the
Southern army, and taken immediate command of the regiment.
The General has been pleased (in orders) to compliment my eonduct
while in that department. Major Edwards is my successor,
and Lieutenant-Colonel Mentgez is appointed inspector to the
Southern army.
I do myself the honor of inclosing you a copy of the last return
of the regiment. I expect, in a few days, to be able to obtain cloth
ing sufficient for the men, and then we shall cut the proper military
appearance.
Be pleased to present my compliments to Dunn and Keene.1
1 Aids-de-oump to St. Clair.
r
572 The St. Clair Papers.
General St. Clair to General Washington.
November 2&lh, 1782.
Dear Sir:—Agreeably to my promise, I ought, in a very few
days, to set out on my return to the army, but, I am sorry to say
it, I find it will be impossible at the time I proposed, as I am now
so far from having completed the purpose for which your Excellencv
was pleased to allow me to be absent as the day of my arrival. I
have had several interviews with Mr. Morris; he says, and I am
sure it is so, that he is making every exertion in order for a hand
some payment to the army, and that he has expectations of soon
having it in his power, but that, notwithstanding it depends upon
so many contingencies, he will not venture to fix upon the time. I
could not ask him for a partial payment to me, though I am per- •suaded that, if he had been in cash, from the friendship that has long
subsisted betwixt us, he would have offered it, as I let him very ex
plicitly into my present circumstances, which is, in short, Sir—I am
not master of one single shilling, nor will any thing that I am pos
sessed of command it; I am in debt, and my credit exhausted, and,
were it not for the rations I receive, my family would actually starve.
This is rather hard, after sacrificing, as I have done, ease and inde
pendence, and the best part of my life, and having settled accounts .
in my hands for more than three thousand pounds, and considerable
sums due, the accounts of which have not yet been liquidated. This
will, I hops, induce you t:i excuse my overstaying the tima limited
for my return, whilst you do me the justice to believe that, whatever
uneasiness I feel from the distress of my private circumstances,
which, I own, is not a little, I have not less from being forced to a
breach of my duty, the first of the kind in my whole life, and that
I shall be happy to return to it the moment I can, by any means,
put myself in a situation.1
1 Tho distressed situation in which General St. Clair's family were placed
in 1782, by the failure of the Government to pay him what was due to him
caused him the greatest pain and anxiety. He had, hitherto, made up nil de
ficiencies out of his own private means, hut when landed property no longer
brought even a twentieth of its value, that source failed. When in South
Carolina, he wrotea pressing letter to the President of Congress, asking that
his accounts might be settled and some of the sums he lfad paid out for the
Government refunded; and, when ho returned to Philadelphia he laid full
details of his condition before his friend Kobert Morris. The latter sympa
thized deeply, and assisted him to tho extent of his power; but it was a
time when he was struining every nerve to supply means to keep troops in
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 573
General St. Clair to General McDougall, Colonel Ogden,
and Colonel Brooes, a Committee from the Army at
West Point, to Congress.1
December (without day), 1782.
Gentlemen:—As it is of consequence that the representations to
the field. How he found relief for his family is not told in his papers, hut
that the trial was a long nnd distressful one, is shown by the fact that he
was able to remain with the army but a few days in December, and that
Washington found it necessary to recall him in February. See letter of the
19th February.
1The close of the year 1782 and the winter of 1783, when there was a
prospect of peace, but an uncertainly as to whether or not negotiations
might fail and a new campaign be required, was a period of great anxiety
. to the leading patriot0, and of very great danger to the cause of u republic.
There seemed to be no resources left, and there was a total want of harmony
between Congress and the States. In October, 1782, Washington wrotrf to
the President of Congress, referring to the proposition to reduce the army:
"I can not help fearing the result of the measure in contemplation, under
present circumstances, when I see such a number of men goaded by a thou
sand stings of reflection on the past nnd of anticipations of the future, about
to be turned into the world, soured by penury and what they call the in
gratitude of the public, involved in debts, witheut one farthing of money to
carry them home, after having spent the flower of their days, and many of
them their patrimonies, in establishing the freedom and independence of
their country, and suffered every thing that human nature is capable of en
during on this side of desth. I repeat it, that when I consider these irri
tating circumstances, without one thing to soothe their feelings or dispel the
gloomy prospects, I can' not avoid apprehending that a train of evils will
follow of a very serious and distressing nature. On the other hand, could
the officers be placed in as good a situation as when they camo into service,
the contention, I am persuaded, would be, not who should continue in the
field, but who should retire to private life."
When the army had taken up their winter-quarters at Newburg, and,
during the days of idleness, reflected on their situation, with accounts un
settled, and no provision for future liquidation of them, there was much ex
citement, which resulted, finally, in the appointment of a committee to wait
on Congress and explain the grievances of the army. The committee con
sisted of General McDougall and Colonels Ogden and Brooks. The memo
rial which they were charged to present embraced the following points:
1. Present pay; 2. A settlement of the accounts of the arrearages of pav
and security for what is due; 3. A commutation of the half pay allowed by
different resolutions of Congress for an equivalent in gross; 4. A settlemei.t
of the accounts of deficiencies of rations and compensation; and 5. A set
tlement of the accounts of deficiencies of clothing and compensation.
This was courteously received by Congress, and resolutions adopted look.
574 The St. Clair Papers.
be made to Cjngress on the part of the army should be general, and
all the different lines agreed as to the subject of the proposition,
but from their situation it is impossible that the sense of some of
them—-of the Pennsylvania line in particular—can bo known in
time to be conveyed to you, I have thought it might be of some
use to state what I conceive ought to be their sense of mattery
which you are at liberty to make such use of as you shall judge
most conducive to the end in view. The State of Pennsylvania
very liberally adopted the resolution of Congress recommending the
half pay, and has enacted a law entitling the officers who shall con
tinue in service until the end of the war to receive it during the
residue of their lives, but they have provided no funds nor ap
pointed any mode for the payment of it. As this law was founded
on a promise of Congress, the Pennsylvania line will not consider
the United States as discharged from the obligation of that promise
should the State fail to carry the law into execution, and would cer
tainly be very desirous that a fund should be provided by their au
thority to render the receipt of the half-pay unequivocal ; and it is
indeed a very reasonable and modest expectation that some provision
should be made for them in the future, as a recompense for the time
they have given to the public, for the sacrifice of their best years
and all their prospects in life ; and perhaps it might not be amiss to
remind Congress that when they took up arms it was not with a
view to make them a profession. Certainly, had it been expected
that the war would have been drawn out to the length it has been,
many, particularly those who have families, and have thereby ruined
them, would not have engaged in it. I say, then, I have no doubt
but that, at the same time that they have the firmest reliance upon
the honor and generosity of the State, they would be glad to see a
ing to nn adjustment of the claims. Pending tlio negotiations—there being
n divergence of views of the States as to the question of half pay—the exeitement
in camp was heightened by the appearance of anonymous appeals,
calculated to inflame the passions of the men, and giving rise to the suspicion
that Congress would be deposed and a government established with Wash
ington at the head. The latter whs equal to the emergency, and bv rare
tact brought patriotism to the front, and succeeded in getting a declaration
from the soldics in that spirit, proposing to uphold the government. The
authorship of the remarkable papers was attributed to Major John Arm
strong.
For an account of the " Newburg Addresses" and the proceedings of the
meeting of soldiers, over which General Gates presided, which forever put
at rest all doubt of the patriotism of the men whe had borne the brunt of
the war, see Spnrks Writings of Washington, Vol. VIII., pp. 551-568.
Correspondence, Addifsscs, Etc. 575
counter-security established by Congress. Neither is the forming a
fund all that strikes me as necessary ; the application of it should
likewise be pointed out—that is, an officer should know with cer
tainty the qualifications that will he necessary to entitle him to re
ceive it, and the times and the place to which he must resort. As
for past pay, I take it for granted there is no reason to expect it
will be paid up. That must, therefore, be put on a footing to secure
the payment of the interest regularly. Whether it would not be
the best mode with respect to that to coalesce with the other public
creditors is worthy of very serious consideration. It appears to me
that it would have this consequence : that an interest in favor of the
army as general public creditors would be created in each State, and
the whole thereby have a better chance of being provided for;
whereas, were the army to insist upon a special and separate pro
vision, the weight of the other creditors would be against them, as
removing a provision for themselves to a greater distance. As to
the accruing pay for the present and every succeeding year, Con
gress ought to bo informed, in the most express and positive terms,
that it is of absolute necessity that, without an immediate payment
and a certainty of it in future, at stated periods for that and every
succeeding year, the army can not be kept together, and that with
out it there is every reason to expect a convulsion of the most
dreadful nature and fatal consequences. These, then, I take it,
would be the expectations of the Pennsylvania officers, viz : a Con
tinental security for their half-pay and arrears of pay, and an as
surance of their current pay in future. As to other demands, they
are precisely in the same situation with the rest of the army. What
satisfies that, will doubtless satisfy them. Permit me to remark
that, whatever mode is adopted to produce that purpose, the whole
army ought to throw themselves upon Congress. The services that
have been performed, from which the right to the demand arises,
have been performed for the United States; that, separately, the
States are not bound to recognize then), and that whatever disposi
tions some of them may discover, the sentiments of the different leg
islatures are extremely fluctuating, and when danger is past and in.
terest has its full operation unchecked by fear, they may be very
different from what they are now.
This nrat er may also be viewed in a political sense. The confed
eration is a very imperfect one. The grand committees of the na
tion are without power, and the individual mombcjrs may, as they
have often done, adopt the little local policy of their respective
States. They may be restricted by express instructions. If the
576 The St. Clair Papers.
debts due to and the provision to be made for the army can be
thrown upon the continent at large, and the army kept together,
their hands would be strengthened. They could s{ieak with some
degree of authority to any refractory State, and it might be the
happy means of procuring justice to ourselves and others, of making
and keeping us a great and respectable people, by securing the na
tional faith and national character. Without something of this
kind, we have "the melancholy prospect of having spent our best
years, our fortunes, and our blood to no purpose, or to a very bad
one, that of becoming the most abject and despicable people on the
face of the earth. An objection, I know, arises from the dislike
some of the States have to the name of a pension. I can not be
lieve them serious in it, but make use of it only, to cover their dis
like to rewarding the men who have made them free—a horrid in
stance of ingratitude, which, though a disgrace to human nature,
is unhappily not uncommon. I have seen it somewhere laid down
as a maxim that " kings may be ungrateful, but republics must be."
If there is, then, any thing in the nature of a republic that sub
jects it to this vice, so much the more reason have we to guard
against its operation.
But what I have proposed above by no means prevents the legis
lature of any State from entering into a compromise with the officers
of that State for their half-pay, but it would put the officers in a
situation to make the bargain upon more equal terms. Should a
State chi.ose to give them a sum of money instead of half-pay, and
they agree to receive it, what is the consequence? Simply this : a
ratio of the payments to be made by that State to the public pro
portionate to what the half-pay list of that State bears to the whole
half-pay list, would cease, and that Congress would very easily
manage.
Permit me to observe that there is a part of the army which must
depend upon Congress solely. These are the foreign officers, our
own brevet officers, and Ha2en's and Armand's corps. Some lines,
particularly that of Connecticut, arc also very averse to a depend
ence upon their States. Should the awny divide, and some throw
themselves upon Congress and some upon their respective States,
nothing will be done by either. Congress will want the power, and
the States, I fear, will want the will.1
1General St. Clair very clearly outlines the views of those who, while suf
fering in the 6eld for eight years, had found dependence upon the Slates n
broken reed, saw that the peace of society and permanency in government
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 577
General Washington to General St. Clair.
Headquarters, Newburgh, February 19</i, 1783.
Dear Sir :—It is a considerable time since I received the letter in •which you informed me it would be impossible for you to return to
the army at the period appointed, on account of your pecuniary and
domestic affairs. Sympathizing deeply in your private distresses, I
have delayed to recall your attention and presence to your com
mand as long as the circumstances of service, my own personal
feelings, and the duty I owe to the public, would suffer me to do it.
Before the receipt of this letter, you will have learnt my sentiments
respecting the duties that are expected of the general officers of
this army, from a late order transmitted to you officially by the
Adjutant-General. In addition to that information,'! now take the
liberty, in this private and friendly manner, to acquaint you, that,
in case you wish to retain a command in this army, it will be essen
tial for you to come on immediately, prepared to remain with it,
as I must make it a point for every officer who will have the honor
of commanding any corps of troops in it, to take upon himself the
charge and trouble of maneuvering, disciplining and forming that
corps for the field.
I do not here enter fully into a detail of the reasons which now
make it particularly necessary for the general officers, who have
been long absent, to join without loss of time. It will surely be
sufficient to mention, that out of nine generals assigned to the com
mand of the troops in this cantonment, seven are either actually
gone, or have made applications to be absent at the same time, so
that by gratifying their wishes (besides incurring public reprehen
sion) the whole weight of the business, the cares and the troubles of
the army, would devolve upon me, until a sunshine occasion, or a
prospect of some brilliant operation, should induce them to return
and share the pleasures and honors of service.
I request you will be so kind as to give me a line in answer to
this, by the very next post.
could only be secured through one general head. Hence, "Washington and
his associates afterwards favored a strong government, while these who did
not share in the sufferings and perils, and theorized on political affairs, fa
vored a greater reservation of power to the State.
37
578 The St. Clair Papers.
Hon. John Potts to General St. Clair,
New York, January Sth, 1783.
Sir:—It is wit!i no small degree of satisfaction that I am just
now informed of your return from the unhealthy climate to the
southward.
Will you pardon me, dear sir, when I say that I greatly rejoice at
your presence in our country at this particular period, as it appears
to me very important to the future prosperity and happiness of
America.
Whether this country shall, after all its difficulties and distresses,
return to the full enjoyment of the blessings of peace, liberty, and
safety, or continue to suffer the miseries and hardships of war, will
depend on the determination of Congress this winter. What in
ducement any man who has the interest of this country at heart
can have to desire the continuance of this scene of distraction, I can
not conceive.
The difficulties of this country in regard to its trade, and in point
of resource, are notorious ; and although a very uninformed and
very retired individual, yet sufficient facts appear to justify my
conclusion that America might, at this period, put an end to the
calamities of war with the gratification of every reasonable wish.
It is not, nor I am persuaded ever will be, the desire of the gentle
man to whom I have the honor to address this, to make this country
the instrument of the exaltation of France, to the destruction of
England, even supposing that to be the possible issue, and if that is
not the intention, I confesss I am totally at loss to conceive the mo
tive which can operate to the continuance of the war.
The compass of a letter will not permit me to enlarge, even if I
was certain it would be agreeable, but will conclude with requesting,
as a very particular favor, that General St. Clair would honor me
so much as by a line or two to explain where the obstacle lies to
prevent the happy return of the blessings of peace.
I am persuaded your liberality of sentiment will pardon this lib
erty, for I beg you to be assured that, whatever my circumstances
or situation are or may be, I shall always retain a sincere and warm
afFection for my native country and its hardiness.
If you will have the goodness to indulge me in this request, and
deliver, or have it delivered, to Mrs. Potts, it will safely be con
veyed to mc, and lay me under very particular obligation.1
1 Mr. Fotts reflected the sentiments of those Americans whe had ever
Correspondence, AddressfS, Etc. v79
General St. Clatr to Hon. TaojtAs Fitzsijbcons.
Philadelphia, January, 21, 1783.
Sir :—The House are well acquainted that another reform of the
army has taken place, in consequence whereof, a number of officers of
the line of this State retired from the service. The situation of these
men is truly deplorable. They find themselves, after a length of
time that has been entirely devoted to the public, and with very
considerable sums due them from it, absolutely destitute of the
means of subsistence—they can not return to their former employ
ments, their habits are too much changed, and if they had the incli
nation the want of money is an insuperable bar. From the deten
tion of their pay they have all contracted debts, and their credit
ors are pressing. As these gentlemen look up to me, for advice at
least (other assistance I can not afford them, as I find myself in the
same situation), I hope I may stand excused for taking the liberty to
address you on this subject, and requesting that you will bring the
matter before the House. An advance of money is of the utmost
consequence even to their existence, and, should it be denied, they
must be driven to desperation. They will gladly and thankfully re
ceive it as the bounty of the Assembly, but they have claim to it
on the strictest principles of justice. The State has taken upon
itself the payment of part of the money due to them and their halfpay.
The promise alone is of no moment, but they must and do
expect that some steps be taken to fulfill that promise. It is needless
to multiply words upon a subject that speaks for itself, and I have
so much trust in the justice and humanity of the House, that the
matter need only be brought before them to give it its full weight.
Poverty, nakedness, and a jail are not the balm they will pour into
their soldier's wounds, yet, if some relief is longer delayed, the retired
officers must experience them all, for, to my certain knowledge,
many of them can not purchase themselves a pair of shoes or a loaf
of bread, after having for seven long years braved every danger, in
every climate, to give happiness and ease to their fellow-citizens.
grieved over the unhappy difference between the colonies and the mother
country.
580 The St. Clair Papers.
General St. Clair to the Officers of the Pennsylvania
Line.
Pottsgrove, Mardi 29, 1783.
Gentlemen :—Colonel Robison and Captain Keene have done me
the honor to call upon me with the resolve of Congress of the 22d
inst., respecting the commutation of the half-pay for a sum in gross,
and to desire my opinion as to what ought to be the conduct of the line
with regard to accepting or rejecting it. I am very free to tell you
that I think it ought, by all means, to be accepted, and my reasons
are, that it is more favorable in itself than the half-pay ; that the
army being joined with the other creditors gives both a better
chance of being paid, and that the public security is the proper se
curity, and safer than that of the individual States.
Independent of these, there are other reasons, of a political nature,
which should induce every person who wishes well to his country to
close with the proposal in the above resolve. A sum in gross equiv
alent to the half-pay, on the principle of annuities, is more favorable
to the officers than the half-pay itself, because that sum becomes at
once their absolute property, and whether it is paid in money or
only certificates granted for it, provided there is a sufficient fund for
the regular payment of the interest, and that interest is actually
regularly paid, it is the same thing. The certificates will immedi
ately bec;ime negotiable among ourselves for their full value;
among foreigners they will bear a preminm, our interest being so
much higher than in Europe, that there is not a doubt with me that
it will only want to be known to see them pressing their money into
our funds. This will be a public benefit, but the great advantage
to the officers is, that those who have families, instead of a pre
carious provision depending upon their lives, will be able to trans
mit them the whole, either as an annuity or a sum to be divided
among them, as they may think proper. To those who have no
families, the command of such a sum of money presents the oppor
tunity of entering with advantage into some other way of life. I
think the army being put on the same footing with the other cred
itors an advantage to both, as it promises more effectually to secure
payment to both. The funds for the payment of the interest of the
public debts must be provided by the States individually; but they
must be irrevocable, and the management of them confined to
Congress. The public creditors, exclusive of the army, are, in most
of the States, the body of the people. Their desires to be paid,
though not quite so well-founded, are not less craving than those
Correspondence, Addresses, Lie. 581
of the army. By joining with them, therefore, we take advan
tage of that disposition and bring it to operate in our favor, for no
individual legislature will, or dare, refuse to comply with the requi
sitions of Congress when those requisitions take in the interests of
themselves and their constituents ; but very differently might they
act if the army were offered, as insisted upon, a separate provision.
In the one case, we are sure of a great interest with us. In the
other, it would as certainly be against us. The sum need give no
alarm. I am pretty well informed that the interest of cur whole
debt, that to the army included, would very little, if any thing, ex
ceed six hundred thousand pounds per annum. -
There is a variety of sentiment with regard to the security, some
preferring that of the individual States, and others that of the Con
tinent. Xor is it at all surprising that the officers of Pennsylvania
should lean towards a State security, for the State acted nobly
towards them. Notwithstanding, I am most decidedly of opinion
that we ought to look up to the Continent only, and heartily wish
the army may be unanimously of that opinion. Much, I think, de
pends on it. In the first place, while we have no legal claim upon
the States, it is the Continent our services have been given to, aud
it is the faith of the Continent that is pledged for a retribution.
True, the Assembly of Pennsylvania did take up the half-pay,
and have promised it shall be paid, but not a stop has been taken fur
ther in the business, nor is it clear that they could ever provide funds
for the purpose. The complexion of the House may change very
much. Danger is now at a distance, and the infamy that attends
ungenerous actions is, in public bodies, divided among so many that
none seem to feel any part of it, so that little reliance is to be
placed upon their honor.
They may haggle at the commutation, and examples of rejecting
the half-pay are sure to be set them. They can not take in the
public creditors along with us without burdening the State far be
yond her proportion, and, of consequence, we shall have all their
weight against us. But if none of this should happen, it will still
depend upon the will and pleasure of some future Assembly. The
half-pay, or the interest of the commutation, may be paid regularly
for some time. We are disbanded and dispersed, and no longer in
any way formidable. As pensioners, we become obnoxious, and an
act of Assembly puts au end to our existence. On the contrary,
the funds being irrevocably provided by the individual States, and
put into the hands of Congress, we have every security that can
reasonably be required, to which is superadded that care of the na
682 The St. Clair Papers.
ttonal faith and national character which must ever operate strongly
npon that body, while it is very little felt by individual Legis
latures.
The reasons of a political nature that strike me most forcibly
are, that, by joining with the public creditors we should strengthen
the hands of Congress. We should give their recommendations
for the establishment of public credit almost absolute certainty of
being complied with, and a new chain of union would be formed
among the States of more consequence, and that would hold them
more firmly together than our boasted confederation.
On the whole, gentlemen, I am very clear that you should not
hesitate about the acceptance of the commutation on the footing of
the resolve of Congress. If you think with me, or if you think
otherwise, your determination should, as soon as it is obtained, be
sent to General Washington. At the same time, you should send
to Carolina an account of what you have determined upon, that
General Greene may transmit the sentiments of that part of the
line under his command in due time. Congress has directed the
sentiments to be taken by lines ; in our case, it is impossible, from
local situation, part being under the immediate command of Gen
eral Washington and part under that of General Greene.1
General Irvine to General St. Clair.
Carlisle, April 17, 1783.
Dear General:—On the question of the day, viz: half-pay, com
mutation, and, I fear, or nothing, might be added, how is the sense
of our line to be collected? I think the sooner some steps are taken
the better, particularly as I am much afraid even the small powers
Congress at present possesses will daily dwindle. There appears an
evident disposition in several States already to curtail them, and
this will become general. If this is a fact, what value will a resolu
tion of Congress be of, unless the States, severally, confirm them by
laws, which I conceive they will scarce think of with respect to the
army after their dissolution; for it seems that all public bodies will
not think of doing or enacting any thing unless they are petitioned
for the express purpose. How will the army, then, once disbanded,
be ever able even to ask justice ; collective!y and individually to hope
1 For further correspondence on this subject, see letters of St. CInir and
Irvine, following. The diseussion refers to the veteran soldiers, and not to
the raw recruits that mutinied in the following June.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. o83
to obtain it would be vain indeed. The eastern, or main army,
gives the tone. Do you think they are really satisfied with the late
resolution, and will they retire resting the matter as it now stands?
Whatever they do, the rest must follow their example ; but are not
.their States disposed to do them justice? I think they are con
vinced of this or they would not give up the point so easy. Would
not n. correspondence with them be necessary ? They ought at least,
I think, to be felt, and I think you could do this without coming to
any explanation ; much depends on the conducting matters at this
juncture. I do not yet know whether I must return to Fort Pitt or
not ; but it is most probable I must, as I am informed, by express
yesterday, that the savages are killing and scalping all over the
country. These wretches, I think, must be extirpated.
General St. Clair to General Irvine.
Philadelphia, May 6, 1783.
Dear Sir :—Your favor of the 16th of last month was delivered
to me about three days ago, and I am happy to have an opportunity
so soon to answer it, as I am one letter in your debt, and have, at
other times, been very tardy in replying ; but I entreat you to be
lieve it has not arisen from any neglect, but solely from a bad habit
I have contracted of never having a letter ready for a conveyance,
and very often, when the conveyance offers, it is impossible to write.
I have, however, for some time. past been so afflicted with the gout
that I really had neither ability nor inclination to write a line to any
living creature. I am now getting over it, and though I know you
would have sympathized with me in any case, it was with no small
degree of concern I learned that you have been confined almost all
winter with its cousin german.
As to the question of the half-pay commutation, I strongly recom
mended to our line that they should accept it agreeably to the resolve
of Congress, but not relinquishing the promise of the State in case
the States at large did not provide the necessary funds ; and that
they should unite with all the public creditors of every denomina
tion. This, I thought, would interest a great mfhiber of people in
each State whose weight would probably be exerted, in the different
Legislatures, against the army if they insisted on separate and dis
tinct provision ; that they should send on their determination to
that part of the line to the southward for their concurrence, and, in
the meantime, signify what they resolved upon to General Wash
584 The St. Clair Papers.
ington within the last two months ; but I have been so indisposed
that I have not had opportunity to inquire what they have done,
and they have not thought proj)er to inform me. You justly ob
serve the eastern troops will give the tone, and it was certainly in
their power to have, without taking any improper or indecent
measures, induced a compliance with our reasonable demands ; but
they have, I believe, been wretchedly managed, and the opportunity
is, I fear, escaped forever; I believe they will disband. They will
be themselves the greatest sufferers!, for I am persuaded, after they
have mixed with the mass of the people, no manner of regard will
be paid to their claims, their services or their merits. Indeed, it pre
sents a very gloomy prospect to us all, but I have still some confi
dence in the honor and generosity of this Htate ; but bad examples
are very catching, and, God knows, we have many, even in our
House of Assembly, who are not possessed of the most liberal senti
ments. The mode you mention in your letter was, in a great meas
ure, pursued ; a committee came here from the army, and, after
hanging on Congress for a considerable time, and having obtained
as satisfactory an account of what was to be expected as could be
got, one of them was sent to the army to acquaint themwith it ; but
no good effect has been produced, and, indeed, for myself, I never
expected much, for I know the officers from that country look so
much to the civil line of life, and are so fond of either gaining
p ipularity among the citizens, or preserving what they have al
ready, that no measure that would put that to a risk had much
chance of going cordially down with them. A very little time now
will bring us to the ne plug ultra; yet still I flatter myself that, if
we can but be unanimous among ourselves, we shall get justice
done us by our own State. Our situation is, however, critical, and
requires both vigorous and prudent measures ; if we fail, wc shall
be the more wretched part of the community, with the constant
mortification before us of seeing every body else in ease and plenty
at our expense. I must bid you farewell, for the subject has made
me, as it always does whenever I think of it, very gloomy. Adieu.
P. H. —I had a letter from Fishbourn a few days ago, who says our
troops—what remained of them—were to march for the northward
the first of May.1
1The Pennsylvania troops ip South Carolina, under General Wayne.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc 5S5
General St. Clair to General Irvine.
Philadelphia, June 2, 1783.
Dear Sir:—Dr. Rogers has beeu applying for leave that his
son, who is surgeon at Fort Pitt, might come to this place. His in
tention is -to send him from hence to Europe, in order to finish his
education in the profession previous to his settling for life. I re
ferred him to you, as you were the proper judge whether his pres
ence could be dispensed with, and the only person that could dispense
with it ; at the same time, I informed him I had no doubt you
would comply with his request, for such a purpose especially, if it
could possibly be done.
The definitive treaty is not yet arrived ; nevertheless, the army is
about to be dissolved—not indeed actually disbanded, but what is
the same thing. All those engaged for the war are to be furloughed
until that time, and then discharged. What is to become of your
post I know no;, u«r, I believe, did Congress ever consider that
your command was composed entirely of men under the above
description. I presume, however, they will either be continued
until possession is taken of the posts upon the lakesor that they will
be relieved by some of those who stand engaged for three years, of
whom, I suppose, there will be near five thousand.1
I hope you have recovered your health, and heartily wish you the
continuance of it.
1The history of the services, sufferings and rewards of the veteran Penn
sylvania line will be completed by a statement that the disposition, sug
gested in the following letter, was finally made by the State in 1784:
President John Diceinson to General St. Clair.
Philadelphia, February 29, 1784.
Dear Sir:—The affair we lately conversed upon is likely to suffer for
"want of proper application. Gentlemen say they are not informed what
the sentiments of the officers of our line are.
There is to be a conference with a committee to-morrow. This may be of
some use; but I most earnestly wish that a short memorial on the subject
of paying the commutation and arrears, both which will amount, perhaps
to a million of dollars, according to the computations that have been com
municated to me, in lands.
We have it now in our power to do justice to the officers and soldiers, and
to provide comfortably for them ; and, happily for us, the same measure will
render essential service to the Slate, and demonstrate the truths of the old
saying that "Honesty is the be>t policy." If any mistake is made at this
time, it will be impossible to compensate for it by any future acts. I, there
fore, beg leave to call for your assistance, in order that this very important
business may be brought to a desirable conclusion.
586 The St. Clair Papers.
General St. Clair to General Wayne.
Philadelphia, June 15th, 1783.
Sir;—I have written to you by this conveyance, informing you
that the troops under your command are to be landed at Wilming
ton aud marched to Lancaster. I think it necessary to inform you
of the reasons that induced such directions to be given. It was
found to be next to impossible to keep together the men engaged for
the war, who composed much the greatest part of the main army
after the proclamation of an indefinite cessation of hostilities, at the
same time there was a great and striking indecorum in our disarm
ing entirely, until the articles of the provisional treaty were carried
into execution. This induced Congress to adopt the expedient of
allowing as many of them as chose to go home upon furlough, and
to be discharged upon the ratification of the definite treaty. The
whole, I believe, accepted the furlough, those excepted of the Penn
sylvania line in this State, so that the men engaged for a time other
than the duration of the war are all that now compose the army.
The entire derangement of our finances put it out of the power
of the public to make the provision they wished, and that ought to
have been made before a dissolution of the army took place, which
you will see this expedient of the furloughs really amounts to. But
the regiments at this place have refused to accept of furloughs, and
have shown a disposition that has justly given some alarm to the
citizens. Their numbers are too inconsiderable, it is certain, to be
formidable, yet, nevertheless, should they break out into any ex
cesses, they might do infinite mischief, and should the troops from
Carolina, who can not reasonably be expected to be in very gixid
temper, be joined to them, the same spirit would instantly run
through the whole, and the evil become more extensive. I am per
suaded you will think it necessary they should be kept separate, and
take such measures for those under your immediate command being
marched to the place assigned them, as will Ik; the most proper, both
to keep them in temper, and tend to the safety and quiet of the
citizens.1
1 The situation was thought to be so critical that General St. Clair, by
order of General Lincoln, Secretary of AVar, dispatched Captain Talbot to
the bay with orders to the pilots not to proceed up the Delaware beyoDd
"Wilmmgton, where the troops were to debark, and then march to Lancaster.
General Lmcoln had expressed the opinion Ihut great consideration should
be shown to the soldiers on account of the "peculiar distress in which they
are involved."
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 587
MASOk Jackson1 to General St. Clair.
War Office, Thursday, June 19th, 1783.
2:30 o'clock p. M.
My Dear General : —The inclosed note * was this moment delivered
to me by the messenger of Congress.
The pressing manner in which the President writes will not per
mit me to give you a detail of the circumstances which require your
presence.
The troops at Lancaster have mutinied, and are now on their
march to this city.
1 A. Jackson, Assistant Secretary of War.
2 The note was as follows:
"Thursday, 2 o'cloce p. m.—The President of Congress1 presents his
compliments to the Assistant Secretary of War, and informs him that it is
ordeied by Congress that he do immediately send an express to Major-General
St. Clair, directing him to repair to this city without delay. The Assistant
Secretary will not communicate this measure to any person whatever.
1 Ellas Boudmot was President of Congress.
On the fourteenth of June, the Secretary of War had instructed General St. Clair
as follows : " Sheuld any of the men now at Lancaster decline receiving their furlomins,
you will please to form them in complete corps and cause them to be
marched to the barracks in Carlisle. The requisite orders were sent to Colonel
Hampton, whe was in command there. The soldiers whe.were recent recruits de
manded an immediate settlement, and, upon this being refused (there was nobody
with autherity to make such settlement), marched in force for Philadelphia, with
the view of compelling compliance from Congress. Arrived at Philadelphia, they
were joined by some of the soldiers stationed there, and three hundred strong
marched to the State-House, where both Congress and the Council of Pennsylvania
were sitting, which they surrounded. They then demanded, in writing, of Council,
that power be granted them to cheose officers to lead them, and autherity to take
such measures as they theught proper to redress their grievances, and gave Council
twenty minutes to consider of it, or abide the consequences.
General St. Clair was sent by Congress with unlimited powers to try, in conjunc
tion with Council, to quiet them, and, if possible, to get them to return to their bar
racks. He at last prevailed on them to cheose a committee to confer with Council,
which was agreed to: but they could not agree among themselves upon the men;
and the contention was so warm that one of the sergeants marched off a part of the
men, and the rest followed witheut doing any damage, contrary to my expectation;
for 1 assure you it was a serious affair, for above one-half of them was drunk. They
kept us about three heurs, and we had no military force to suppress them.
Congress was so offended at the insult offered to the majesty and sovereignty of
the United States, thut they adjourned next day to Princeton, and have not returned
since. Whether they will return is not yet known, but they have ordered down two
or three regiments of Connecticut troops, which arc now on their way here. On the
Wednesday following, the soldiers laid down their arms and surrendered to their
officers, and made submission to us. They have taken furloughs, and are almost all
gone.—John Byers, Member of Council to General Irvine, July 1, 1788.
588 The St. Clair Papers.
General St. Clair to General "Washington-.
Princeton, July 2, 1783.
Sir:—The unfortunate and disgraceful event that has lately hap
pened in Philadelphia must have occasioned your Excellency much
uneasiness, and you ought to have received an account of it from
me, but I was prevented from giving it by the very ill state of my
health, and the total uselessness of my right hand, from a violent
relapse into the gout, which, indeed, I have not been one day free
from since the second of March. It will be useless now to enter
into that detail, as you must have received it through Congress and
the War Office, but I am happy to be able to inform you that the
affair is over, and the troops returned to their obedience. From
what yet appears, a Captain Carberry, a deranged officer,
ami Lieutenant Sullivan, of Moylau's dragoons, were the principal
instigators of the mutiny ; they have absconded, and I believe did
get on board a vessel at Chester that was ready to sail for London.
There is reason to think that some other officers, and most of the
sergeants, certainly, were concerned in it. Three officers I left in
arrest, and ordered the sergeants who appeared to be ring-leaders
to be confined as soon as an examination, which the Chief-Justice
was directed to make in order to discover whether they had not
been prompted by some of the citizens, should be over. In these I
was happy to find I had anticipated the wishes of Congress, and
every thing in my power, either directly or in aid of General Howe,
to detect and bring to condign punishment the authors and abettors,
[am led to do so by every motive of duty and inclination. Your
Excellency will have seen in Oswald's piper, of Saturday Inst, a very
strange account of the matter, together with am . I illiberal attack
upon Congress, and in which I am also placed in no very favorable
1 Party fooling was brought into this matter, and a wide difference between
Congress and the. Council of Pennsylvania was developed. The former
body appointed a committee, consisting of Alexander Hamilton, Colonel
Pickering, and Mr. Ellsworth, to confer with the State authorities as to the
best mode fur rebuking the insult offered to the legislative bodies. The
committee advised calling out the Stato militia and disarming the mutineers
by force. This the council refused, and resorted to a temporizing policy.
Thereupon, Congress withdrew to Princeton, whence they sent for General
St. Clair to confer, and orders wero given to General Howe to put two regi
ments in readiness for inarching to Philadelphia. The matter was adjusted,
as indicated in St. Clair's letter to Washington. The officers condemned
wero afterwards pardoned by the Stato Legislature. For a statement of
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 589
point of view. I flatter myself that your Excellency knows me well
enough to believe that no improper concessions would easily be
drawn from me on any occasion. On this, no promise of any kind
was made the soldiery, but that their accounts should be settled, and
they put on the same footing as the rest of the army. They re
quested that they might be permitted to appoint a committee of
three or more officers, either now on actual service or that had
been, to confer with the executive of the State ; to this, with the
approbation of Congress and Council, I consented, and got them
sent to their quarters, and, indeed, without vanity, I believe it was
fortunate that I was able to come to town, as my presence had some
effect in restraining them from greater enormities.
The troops under the command of General Howe, I met yester
day near Trenton, and this day they were to proceed on their march
for Philadelphia. I gave him every necessary information, and, as
I shall return in a day or two, will give him every assistance; in the
meantime, if the Judge-Advocate can be spared from the army, I
could wish your Excellency to order him down, both because there
may be many officers to try upon a very delicate point, and that the
State may be somehow involved in the issue of the inquiry, it there
fore seems to me it would be best it should be conducted by the
proper officer, and with more attention to form than might happen
if it was done by an officer appointed for the occasion.
The charges I have exhibited against the officers arc : suspicion
of being concerned with Captain Carberry and Lieutenant Sullivan,
who have absconded, in exciting the late mutiny among the troops,
or aiding and abetting the same ; and against Captain Chrystie, who
happened to be the eldest officer in the committee, and acted as
their chairman, behaving unlike an officer in refusing to communi
cate, as chairman of the committee, to me what proposals the troops
had made of returning to their duty, or whether they had made
any. This charge lies equally against the whole, but, in the first
instance, can be brought forward against him only. It would be too
tedious to give your Excellency the particulars on which this last
charge is founded, but the committee has promised that they will
make no representations on the part of the soldiery until they had
made proper submission to Congress and to the State for their be
havior on the 21st; and it was the refusal of that communication
which induced the committee of Congress to advise the adjournment
both parties to the controversy, the render is referred to the Work* of Alex
ander Hamilton, Vol. 1, pp. 374-393; and the Life of President Reed,
Tol. II.
590 The St. Clair Papers.
of that body to this place ; indeed, all the information I got was ex
torted, which led both them and me to imagine that they, the com
mittee, at least and perhaps many more, were concerned.
Paul Jones to General St. Clatr.
On board the Washington Packet, Delaware Bay,
November 10, 1783.
Dear General :—After I had the honor to see you last at Philadel
phia, I had occasion to go to Princeton. General Washington did
me the honor to read the papers I showed to him, and his Excel
lency told me, on returning them, that he must confess " he could not
see upon what principle ofjustice Congress had acted respecting my
rank."
I have, however, said nothing to that great body on the subject
The object for which I am now here on my way to France is to so
licit justice to the officers and men I had the honor to command in
Europe. When I have obtained proper satisfaction for them, I in
tend to return to America. The Chevalier de la Luzerne and Baron
Steuben have proposed to obtain a vote of the Society of Cincionatus
for my admission at the first general meeting.
If I am elected a permanent member of the society, my friend
and attorney, John Boss, Esq., will pay seventy-five dollars, the
month's pay of a colonel, which I have by virtue of my election to
command the America. I shall place dependence for my admission
on your interposition.
AFTER THE WAR—PARTICIPATION IN PUBLIC AF
FAIRS DURING THE LAST COLONIAL DAYS.
The Society of the Cincinnati.
Camp on the Hudson River, J. June, 1783,
Sir:—The plan for the formation and institution of the Society
of the Cincinnati 1 I hope you have received, as, by a resolution of
1 After the close of active hostilities, and wliilo negotiations for peace were
pending, Sir Guy Carleton held the city of New York for the British, while
the headquarters of the American army were at JCewburg, on the Hudson.
No longer engrossed with thoughts of duties in .the field, t he iO<ficex8 turned
their attention to some method for perpetuating the memories of the eight
years' struggle for Independence. They decided on a Society, and on the
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 591
the convention, Major-General Heath was desired to forward and to
request your approbation of it. I have now the honor to inclose
the proceedings of the convention since that time, by which you
JOth May, 1783, they converted the name of the Roman dictator into a Latin
plural— Cincinnati—and adopted it. The Institution of the Order was
drawn up by a committee consisting of Generals Knon, Hand and Hunt
ington, and Captain Shaw, of General Knox's staff, who acted as secretary.
On the 13th May, the representatives of the army met at the quarters of
Baron de Steuben (who presided on the occasion), and formally accepted and
approved the Institution.
"The fundamental articles upon which it was based are these: An in
cessant attention to preserve inviolate those exalted rights and liberties of
human nature for which they hud fought and bled, and without which the
high rank of a rational being is a curse instead of blessing.
"An unalterable determination to promote and cherish between the re
spective States, that union and National honor so essentially necessary to
their happiness and the future dignity of the American Empire.
" To render permanent the cordial affection subsisting nmon; the officers."
Besides this, the Society was to bo eleemosynary—each officer contrib
uting one month's pay towards the creation of a fund for the support of in
digent widows and orphans. '•Another and most important object was to confer appropriate henors
upon their noble allies, the officers of the French army and navy, who had
so materially assisted them in the late struggle." —Alexander Johnston's Con
tribution to the Hist. Soc. of Pennsylvania.
To Major l-'Enfa'nt, of the French engineers, was intrusted the task of
providing a decoration. " It consists of a bald eagle of enameled gold, bear
ing upon its breast a medallion charged as follows: On the obverse, the prin
cipal figure is Cincinnatus; three senators present him with a sword and
other military ensigns; he is reclining upon his plow, and at his side are
minor implements of husbandry. On the reverse, the sun rises over a city
with open gates, vessels are seen entering the p -rt, and in the midst Fame
crowns Cincinnati with a wreath, inscribed 'Viriutit premium.' Below, hands
joined support a heart, with the motto, ' Esto perpetun.' The whole is pendant
to a blue ribbon, edged with white, descriptive of the union between France
and America. Around the principal charge is the legend, 'Omnia relinquit
servare rrmpublicain."
Major-General Arthur St. Clair was elected President of the Society for
the State of Pennsylvania. In December, he received the following notice
of the first general meeting of the Society :
Mount Vernon, Dee. 28, 1783.
Sir:—After [a long delay caused by] various circumstances, and mature
consideration, it is deemed proper to appoint [the city of] Philadelphia to
bo the place for the general meeting of the Society of the Cincinnati on the
first Monday in May next, agreeably to the original Institution.
The object of this letter is to communicate the determination of the day
and place of meeting thereof, that proper notice may be given to the delo- r
592 The St. Clair Papers.
will see that the members of the Society, who were present at the
last meeting, have made a choice of officers to fill the different de
partments, until the general meeting in May next.
This step, dictated by necessity, I hope will be agreeable to you,
and that you will give your assistance in perfecting this infant
institution, which is founded on principles the most meritorious and
honorable.1 With the greatest respect, I have the honor to be, sir,
your most obedient humble servant, Steuben, Major-General.
To Hon. Arthur St. Clair, Major-Gcncral.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
Mount Vernon, 31 August, 1785.
Dear Sir:—Your favor of the 21st ultimo, inclosing a letter
written in behalf of the Society of the Cincinnati in the State of
gates [chesen from the various State organizations] of the Cincinnati So
ciety, whese attendance will be required at the time and place mentioned.
Having made this communication. I have only to suggest that it may per
haps be preferable to give the necessary notice to your delegates by letter
rather than by [printed or other form] of notification; [as it is the] wish
that there may be adopted means to prevent a failure of communication.
I havo the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant, G. Washington. P. S. —Please to acknowledge the receipt of this letter.
To Major-General St. Clair, President of the State Society in Pennsylvania.
The first general meeting was held at the State House, Philadelphia, 4th
May, 1784. Saturday, May 15,'the following officers of the National So
ciety were elected: President, General Washington; Vice-President, MajorGenernl
Gates; Secretary, Mnjor-General Knon.
General Washington was continued as President as long as he lived. The
statement met with in the American histories that Washington looked with
disfavor on the Society, or that the original Institution was ever changed so
as to abolish the clause providing for hereditary succession, are erroneous.
Alexander Johnston, in looking over the records and papers of the So
ciety, found autographs of the following distinguished personages:
Washington, St. Clair, liochambeau,
Lafayette, Lincoln, Luzerne,
Hamilton, Putnam, d'Estaing,
Knon, Paul Jones, de la Grasse,
Gates, Pinckney, Destouches^
Greene, Moultrie, Gouvion,
Steuben, Wayne, du Plessis,
Lee, Mifflin, de Noailles,
De Segur, the Prince of Conde', Louis XVI. -
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 593
Pennsylvania, on the 9th of July in the preceding year, came to
this place in my absence on a tour up the river Potomac.
I am perfectly convinced that, if the institution of this Society
had not been parted with, ere this we should have had the country
in an uproar, and a line of separation drawn between this Society
and their fellow-citizens. The alterations which took place at the
last general meeting have quieted the clamors which in many of
the States were rising to a great height ; but I have not heard yet
of the incorporation of any Society by the State to which it belongs,
which is an evidence, in my mind, that the jealousies of the people
are rather asleep than removed on this occasion.
I am always made happy when I hear that any of my fellowlaborers
have received appointments, that may in some measure
compensate them for their past services and losses in the late revo
lution. I feel it in two respects ; first, as it benefits the individual ;
and next, as it is a testimony of public gratitude. Be assured, then,
my dear sir, that your appointment to the office which you now
hold gave me much pleasure, as I am told the emoluments of it are
handsome. My best wishes will ever attend you.
Suggestions for a Plan of Government.1
The Committee of the Council of Censors, to whom it was re
ferred to report those articles of the Constitution which are de"The
Constitution of Pennsylvania formed in 1776, provided that, " In
order that the freedom of this commonwealth may be preserved inviolate
forever, there shall be chosen, by ballot, by the freemen in each city and
county respectively, on the second Tuesday in October, in the year 1783,
and on the second Tuesday in October in evory seventh year thereafter, two
persons in each city and county of this State, to be called the Council of
Censors, who shall meet together on the second Monday of November next
ensuing their election ; the majority of whom shall be a quorum, in every
case, except as to calling a convention, in which two-thirds of the whole
number shall agree, und whose duty it shall be to inquire whether the Con
stitution has been preserved inviolate in every part, and whether the legis
lative and executive branches of Government have performed their duty as
guardians of the people, or assumed to themselves or exercised other or
greater powers than they are entitled to by the Constitution; they arc also
to inquire whether the public taxes have been justly laid and collected, etc.,
etc. . . . These powers they shall continue to have for one year from
the day of their election, and no longer. The said Council of Censors shall
also have power to call a convention, to meet within two years after their
meeting, if there appear to them an absolute necessity of amending any arti
594 The St. Clair Papers.
fective and suggest alterations and amendments, reported January
19,1784:
. That, by the Constitution of the State of Pennsylvania, the su
preme legislative power is vested in one House of Representatives,
chosen by all those who pay public taxes. Your committee humbly
conceive the said Constitution to be, in this respect, materially de
fective :
1. Because, if it should happen that a prevailing faction in that
one house was desirous of enacting unjust and tyrannical laws, there
is no check upon their proceedings.
2. Because an uncontrolled power of legislation will always ena
ble the body possessing it to usurp both the judicial and the execu
tive authority, in which case no remedy would remain to the people
but by a revolution.
That, by the said Constitution the supreme executive power is dele
gated to a council.2 Your committee conceive the said Constitution
to be in this respect materially defective:
cle of the Constitution which may be defective, explnining such as may be
thought not clearly expressed, and of adding such as are necessary for the
preservation of the rights and happiness of the people; but the articles to be
amended, and the amendments proposed, and such articles as are proposed
to be added or abolished, shall bo promulgated at least six months before the
day appointed for the election of such convention, for the previous consid
eration of the people, that they may have an opportunity of instructing their
delegates on the subject."
To this Council of Censors Arthur St. Clair was elected in October, 1783,
from the county of Philadelphia. He was made a member of the commit
tee appointed "to report those articles of the Constitution which aro mate
rially defective, and absolutely require alteration and amendment." The
members chosen were: Samuel Miles, Themas Fitzsimmons, Arthur St.
Clair, Themas Hartley and John Arndt. The report was drafted princi
pally by General St. Clair, and the essential parts, which have been found in
his handwriting, have been included in this work for the purpose of exhib
itmg his views of the principles of constitutional government. Although tinreport
was sustained by a majority, it lacked the requisite two-thirds, and
a new convention was not called at that time.
2 An executive council is a monster. It may do great harm, and never
can do any good—it will ever want that energy and promptness that are
essential to an executive body, for it is not executive but deliberative. It
destroys all responsibility, and is a very useless expense. If the President
has abilities, the council are but the solemn witnesses of his acts; if he is
ambitious at the same time, they will be found to be his useful instruments;
if he is cruel or revengeful, at once his ready tools and a defense behind
which ho at any timo can shelter himself; if rapacious, they will share with
him in the plunder of their country, I wish, for the honor of human no-
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 595
1. Because the constant sitting of a council is expensive and bur
densome.
2. Because a numerous body of men, though possessed of wis
dom necessary for deliberation, will never possess the decision nec
essary for action on sudden emergencies.
3. Because, where a Council act either weakly or wickedly, there
is no individual so accountable to the public as every man ought to
be in such cases.
4. Because a single man would never be able of himself to do
such acts as he may persuade a majority of his Council to concur in
and support by their numbers.
5. Because, the election of the President being by joint ballot of
the Council and Assembly, if a prevailing faction should ever happen
in the assembly so as to lead a considerable majority, the President
thus chosen will have nothing to fear from the Legislature, and, by
influencing the Council, will possess exorbitant authority, without
being properly accountable for the exercise of it.
That by the said Constitution the judges of the Supreme Court
are to be commissioned for seven years only, and are removable (for
misbehavior) at any time, by the General Assembly. Your com
mittee conceive the said Constitution to be, in this respect mate
rially defective :
1. Not only because the lives and property of the citizens must,
in a great degree depend upon the judges, but the liberties of the
State are evidently connected with their independence.
2. Because, if the Assembly should pass an unconstitutional law,
and the judges have virtue enough to refuse to obey it, the same
Assembly could instantly remove them.
3. Because, at the close of seven years the seats of the judges
must depend on the will of the Council ; wherefore, the judges will
naturally be under an undue bias, in favor of those upon whose will
their commissions are to depend.
That great care is taken by the said constitution to establish a ro
tation in sundry offices, which your committee humbly conceive to
be improvident :
ture, no such combination could over bo found; but wo know they have existed
together in other countries—they may exist together in this. All the
dangers of an inconvenient aristocracy are justly to be dreaded from such
a body as our present Council. The rotation of its members is no security.
Our Assembly will soon degenerate into an oligarchy, and the wretched
people be destroyed by it.—Note by Arthur St. Clair.
596 The St. Clair Papers.
1. Because the hope of reappointment to office is amongst the
strongest incentives to the due execution of the trust it confers.
2. Because the State is thereby necessarily deprived of the serv
ice of useful men for a time, and compelled to make experiment of
others who may not prove equally wise aud virtuous.
3. Because the check intended by such principle of rotation can
be of no good effect to repress inordinate ambition, unless it were
extended so as to preclude a man from holding any office whatever.
4. Because the privilege of the people in elections is so far in
fringed as they are thereby deprived of the right of choosing those
persons whom they would prefer.
[Having thus pointed out the defects of the Constitution, the
committee proceeded to elaborate the principles indicated by setting
up new articles more in the spirit of republican government. In
this I shall not follow the completed report, as submitted to the
Council of Censors, but such parts as I find among the St. Clair •
Papers which were the originals of the report.]
To the end that the laws may be more maturely considered, and
the blessings of free and equal government extended and secured
to the good people of this State, the supreme legislative power shall
be vested in two separate aud distinct bodies of men : The one
to be called the Legislative Council or Senate ; the other to be
called the House of Assembly ; who shall meet once, at least, in
every year, for the dispatch of public business, and shall be styled
The General Assembly of Pennsylvania.
The Senate shall consist of members from each county in this
State, chosen annually from amongst the body of the freeholders at
the time and place directed by law for the election of members of
Assembly, and shall respectively be possessed of an unincumbered
estate of the value of pounds. All bills framed in the
House of Assembly shall be sent to them for their consideration,
and, if concurred in by a majority, they shall be sent back to the
Assembly, and shall become, when signed by the Speaker, the laws
of the land, but they shall have a negative upon every bill of what
kind soever, for the use of which they may assign their reasons to
the Assembly, or otherwise, at their pleasure, and no bill shall pass
into a law without their consent. The Legislative Council shall
have power to appoint a President, who shall have a casting voice
in all debates in that body, but no other vote ; and, in case of the
absence, death, or resignation of the Governor, he shall administer
the Government, and have and exercise, for the time being, all the
powers and privileges of the Governor.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. oii7
The House of Assembly shall consist of persons most noted for
wisdom and virtue, to be chosen by the freemen of every city and
county therein respectively.
(The people of every county ought to be constitutionally at lib
erty to choose representatives from any part of the State. It is
confining the idea of representation too much, and the people have
the undoubted right to judge who will best serve them and the pub
lic at large, and to elect them whether they are residents of the re
spective county or not.)
The members of the House of Assembly shall be chosen annu
ally, by ballot, on the second. Tuesday of October, forever, and shall
meet on the fourth Monday of the same month.
All money bills shall originate in the House of Assembly only,
and may be altered, amended, or rejected by the Legislative Coun
cil. All other bills and ordinances may take rise in the House of
Assembly or Legislative Council, and may be altered, amended, or
rejected by either. They shall sit on their own adjournments, but
neither body shall have power to adjourn themselves for longer time
than two days, without mutual consent. They shall judge of the
elections and qualifications of their own members ; they may ex
pel a member, but not twice for the same cause ; they may admin
ister oaths on examination of witnesses, and have all other powers
necessary for a free and independent branch of the Legislature.
No reasons against a law ought to appear upon the minutes. If
the bill passes by a majority of one only, it is as binding and an
equal obedience is due to it as if it had passed with unanimous
consent. A dissent with reasons on the minutes can answer no end
but to foment party disputes, and weaken the force of the law, and
impede 'its execution. But the happiness of a State is so inti
mately combined with a vigorous execution of and prompt obedi
ence to the laws, that, where these are wanting, anarchy "must en
sue. If the laws are found imperfect or oppressive, they should be
amended or repealed. The privilege of entering the yeas and nays
is all that any member should desire, and is as much as is consistent
with order and good government.
There shall be a Governor, to whom shall be intrusted the execu
tion of the laws and the appointment of all officers, civil and mili
tary, the officers of both Houses of the Legislature excepted, who
shall be appointed by each House respectively. The Governor
shall be chosen annually by the freemen of the State, qualified as is
required to entitle persons to vote for members of the House of
Assembly, at the same time and place or places. He shall be, in r
598 The St. Clair Papers.
virtue of his office, Commander-in-Chief of the forces of the State,
but shall not have power to march the militia beyond the bounda
ries of the State without the consent of the Legislature. He shall
have power to convene the General Assembly on extraordinary oc
casions, and to pardon, to mitigate punishment, or reprieve persons
convicted of crimes, other than those that may be convicted on im
peachment or of treason. It shall be his duty to lay before the
General Assembly, at every session, a statement of the condition
of public affairs, and call attention to such business as may re
quire legislative consideration. All bills shall be presented to him
for his approval ; but if he objects to the passing of such bill, he
shall return it, together with his objections, to the House in which
it originated.
The Judges of the Supreme Court, and of the Courts of Com
mon Pleas, shall be appointed by the Governor, and hold their
offices during good behavior.1 They shall be incapable of holding
any other office.
A court shall be appointed for the trial of impeachment, and shall
consist of members of the Assembly and Legislative Council, to be
chosen by ballot.
' They should hold their offices during good behavior. Nothing is of more
importai co to the peoplo than the able and impartial administration of jus
tice; but that can not happen unless tlio judges are taken from the bar. To
acquire any eminence in the profession of the law, requires a long and la
borious preparation —after much toil and study the road to ease and import
ance opens by degrees, and an assiduous application to business seldom fails
to obtain thi'm. Will any man whe is in that train quit it for the precarious
enjoyment of an offico which must determine in seven years—where, though
he may bo re-elected, he has no certainty of it? Indeed, the only certainty
he can derive arises, not from a steady unbiased execution of the office, but
from an interested and variable attention to the fluctuations of parties and
party polities.—Note bxj Arthur St. Clair.
The following observation on juries, in connection with courts, has also
been found:
The trial by jury is an inestimable privilege, yet there is something very
absurd iii the construction of juries as they now stand. A man must either
bo starved or damned if ho happens not to bo able to think as some others
do. Let the juries consist of twenty-five, and the verdict be given by a
majority, then no man can be convicted or acquitted, b.t by the unanimous
voice of at least thirteen of his fellow-citizens.—Arthur St. Clair.
The report of the committee led to a prolonged debate, in which St. Clair
participated. Parts of several speeches are preserved, but they are argu
ments based on the above constitution al principles, and need not be repeated
here.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 599
Arthur St. Clair to John Dickinson.1
Philadelphia, July lGtli, 1785.
Sir : —Having heard that the agents for forfeited estates for the
County of Westmoreland are about to sell the buildings in Fort
Pitt as the property of Alexander Ross, an attainted traitor, per
mit me to inform you that no part of the buildings which were left
standing in that fort at its evacuation by the British ever were Mr.
Ross's property. A part of them belongs to me by grant from Gen
eral Gage, and part to other people, and some buildings have been
erected therein since it has been occupied by the United States.
The ruins, which consisted of the materials of a very good house,
that was pulled down ; the revetment of rampart and parapet—a
squarred log redoubt, and a number of pickets or palisades were
purchased by Mr. Ross and the late General Thompson, for, I think,
the sum of fifteen or eighteen pounds ; but, during the residence of
the one and the life of the other, no claim was set up to the build
ings that were on foot. The disposing of the houses by the agents
may embarrass the owners as well as the purchasers, and, for my
part, I am not inclined to sell mine at all. Should Council desire it,
I will wait upon them to give fuller information, and, in the mean
time, have to request that the sale may be ordered to be postponed.2
President St. Clair to James Monroe.
New York, Angust 20th, 1786.
Dear Sir:—I have been favored with your letter of yesterday,*
and thank you for the communications it contains, upon which I
will truly give you my sentiments. A treaty with Spain I consider
1President of the State of Pennsylvania.
2Which request was complied with. The facts are more fully stated in a
letter to John Penn.
2The letter of Mr. Monroe is missing, but his opinions as to the proposed
treaty with Spain were diametrically opposed to those expressed by St. Clair in
the above letter, and in that respect he represented not only Virginia, but lour
other Southern States. The other Virginia members, excepting Henry Lee,
held the same views. Briefly stated, the situation was this: Spain, in 1785,
appointed Don Diego Gardoqui, Entargardo de Kegorios, M representative of
that Court in this country. The rank was not high, but it was at a time
when the new Republic was grateful for any kind of recognition. John
Jay, Secretary of Congress for Foreign Affairs, was commissioned to ncgoti
600 The St. Clair Papers.
as very important to America, at the same time it is certainly orn
ate with Gardoqui a commercial treaty. The original instructions were re
pealed by Congress, and new ones substituted, which required him to stipu
late the right of the United States to their territorial bounds, and the free
navigation of the Mississippi from its source to the Gulf. This latter stipu
lation proved an insurmountable barrier to the progress of the negotiation.
It was a point that Spain would not yield, and could not be enforced except
by war. After months spent in fruitless correspondence, Mr. Jay requested
that the instructions be modified, and recommended a compromise, by the
proposal of a treaty in which for an equivalent of commercial advantages ui
the United States, they, witheut renouncing the right to the navigation to
the Mississippi, should agree to forbear the exercise of that right for a term
of years, to which the duration of the treaty should be limited.
Upon this proposition a debate sprung up in Congress which brought to
the front the sharp differences that had been developed during the Revolu
tionary war between the Northern and Southern States. Mr. Rnfus King,
of Massachusetts, was especially active in supporting the proposed com
promise, and I find that St. Clair, on behalf of Pennsylvania, joined in the
debate with great zeal. Memoranda of a speech now before me, show that
in his remarks on the floor of Congress, lie went even further than he has in
the letter above to Mr. Monroe. He remarked that the fact that the United
States would be prevented, by force, from navigating the Mississippi, and
that it was not then necessary to them, were reasons why they should con
sent to forbear the navigation. It was certainly better policy to waive the
exercise of a right which they could not maintain and obtain something for
the waiver, than by pertinaciously insisting upon it, lose the advantage and
endanger the right of it. Whereas, if Spain should accept the waiver, the
right of the United States would be established for the future, when they
should be better able to maintain it.
What was proposed to Spain was a commercial treaty, not an alliance.
The importance to the United States, in the present urgency, for extending
business relations and restoring a sound financial basis, would be better un
derstood when it was known that she would take the American products, and
pay in the precious metals. He attributed the anxiety of Spain to form this
relation to America, to her desire to strike a blow at Britain by helping to
create a new maritime power. If the opportunity offered should be rejected,
then the United States would again be placed at the mercy of Great Britain.
Two months alter the date of St. Clair's letter to Mr. Monroe, Henry Leo
wrote to General Washington on the same subject. He stood alone in the
Virginia delegation in support of Mr. Jay, and he believed that his old com
mander held to the same opinions. In that letter he said: "The Eastern
States consider a commercial connection with Spain as the only remedy for
the distresses which oppress their citizens, most of which, they say, flow from
the decay of their commerce. Their delegates have consequently, zealously
pressed the formation of this connection, as the only effectual mode to revive
the trade of their country. In this opinion they have been joined by two
of the Middle States. On the other hand, Virginia has, with equal zeal, op
posed the connection, because the project involves expressly the disuse of the
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 601
duty to endeavor to obtain it upon the best terms possible, indeed,
if it was possible to give up nothing to procure it ; but I believe that
can not be done, for, it seems, as I have been informed, that Spain,
notwithstanding she is desirous of being in amity with us, has
directed her Minister to stipulate as the price of her friendship an
acknowledgment on our part of her right to navigate, exclusively,
the Mississippi River. The Minister of the United States is directed
to insist in their behalf on the right of navigating that river freely
with Spain. It is obvious that without one or the other party reced
ing in part, the business ia at an end. The question then is: Is the
friendship of Spain worth any concessions in resjiect to that river ?
I think it is. Mr. Jay suggests that forbearing to use for a limited
time the right we pretend to have to that navigation, which would
be a concession on our part, might enable him to proceed on the
business in which he can not advance one step under present cir
cumstances. In this view, I am clearly of opinion that the restric
tive clause of his instructions ought to be repealed, but as Mr.
Grayson's proposition is more favorable to theUnionthan the abso
lute forbearing to navigate for a given time, how short soever, I
think it ought to have a trial, and, therefore, I wish to make it an
instruction to Mr. Jay, but by no means an ultimatum.
As to taking the negotiations out of the hands of Mr. Jay and
committing it to our Minister in Europe, I can not thiifk it advisable.
navigation of tlie Mississippi for a given time, and eventually, they think,
will sacrifice our right to it. The delegation is under instructions from the
State on this subiect. They have acted in obedience to their instructions,
and, myself excepted, in conformity to their private sentiments, I confess
that I am by no means convinced of the justice or policy of our instructions,
and very much apprehend, unless they are repealed by the present Assembly,
the fatal effects of discord in council will bo experienced by the United
States in a very high degree."
In his reply. General Washington said: "My sentiments with respect to
the navigation of the Mississippi are known to you. They are controverted
by only one consideration of weight, and that is, the operation which the
occlusion of it may have on the minds of the Western settlers, who will not
torrsider the subject in a relative point of view or on a comprehensive scale,
and may be influenced by the demagogues of the country to acts of extrav
agance and desperation, under the popular declamation that their interests
are sacrificed."
Washington's prediction was verified some years later, when he was Presi
dent and St. Clair was Governor of the North-western Territory, in the
commotion in the West on account of the exclusive jurisdiction of Spain
over the Mississippi. At this session, as only seven States voted for the com
promise proposed by Mr. Jay, when nine were requisite, the treaty failed.
602 The St. Clair Papers.
So far from being acceptable to the court of Madrid, it strikes me
that it would be offensive, and if it would be at all necessary that
Mr. Gardoqui should be attended to, it would be impossible ; for the
investing of Mr. Jefferson, or any other person, with the character
of an Envoy Extraordinary, and sending him to Madrid, would
virtually sunersede Gardoqui. It appears to me we could not
possibly tak.; a more effectual step to defeat the measure, which, in
the light in which it presents itself to my mind, I think would be a
real misfortune to our country. Indeed, I do not think there is an
other commercial nation in the world but would feel gratified in hav
ing Spain come forward in the manner she has done to us ; nor one
that would not be pleased at seeing the opportunity slip through our
fingers. Consider, my dear sir, that Spain has, in some measure,
committed herself, without waiting until we should desire her friend
ship. She has offered it without requesting us to send to Madrid to
negotiate the terms ; and all nations consider it important to have
negotiations carried on under their own eyes, as it gives them a
larger influence in them, and the opportunity of improving every
circumstance that offers. She has sent her Minister to negotiate a
treaty here. It is evident the friendship of the United States is
valued highly, or a step so uncommon from so haughty a Court
would not have been taken. And what reason can we suggest for
desiring to put the negotiations in a train that other nations would
studiously avoid? I can sec no good ones, but I can see two that
will very readily present themselves to the Spanish Minister : One,
that Mr. Gardoqui is not acceptable, and we will not do business
with him ; another, that delay is all we have in view until we can
feel the pulses of other Courts, aud put ourselves in a situation to
assert by force that which we claim and they dispute.
The first certainly makes an enemy of Gardoqui, and all his in
terest with the Spanish Ministry, be it much or little, will be ex
erted unfavorably for America. The second, as certainly, determ
ined the Ministry and the nation against us.
That Mr. Jay may have been endeavoring to get his instructions
repealed I neither doubt nor wonder at, because I think they were
in the highest degree improper. It seems to me that if it had been
the design to give Mr. Gardoqui the ascendant in the negotiation,
to put it in his power to know the utmost latitude of Mr. Jay's
power while he could conceal his own, nothing could have been con
trived better to answer the purpose. But if Mr. Jay is deemed an
unfit person, or if he has not hitherto managed the business in a
manner satisfactory to Congress, take it out of his hands, and com
CoiTespondence, Addresses, Etc. 603
mit it to some other" person; but let the negotiations go on here.
Your communications with your Minister may be as frequent and
easy as you please, and if it should, at any time, be found necessary
to throw obstacles in the way of its progress, it can be done with
more ease than at Madrid.
I am an entire stranger to the circumstance you allude to relating
to Mr. Jay.
I shall always be happy to receive any communication you may
please to make. I have replied with the same freedom and with
the utmost candor, which, as I intended, I trust you will accept as a
testimony of the esteem and regard with which I am yours, etc.
President St. Clair to Governor Huntington.1
New York {without date), 1787.2
Sir:—The want of a due representation in Congress, so frequently
as it has happened, and for so great a length of time together, has
very greatly embarrassed the affairs of the Union, and given much
dissatisfaction to the States which generally keep their representations
up, as well as disgust to the members who attend from those States.
It has very often been complained of, and the States not represented
pressed to send their delegates forward ; too often, I am sorry to be
obliged to say, sir, with very little effect, although it must be obvi
ous that, independent of the great national concerns which thereby
often suffer an inconvenience, at least, if not a disgraceful delay, their
own particular interests run some risk from public measures being
adopted without the aid of their counsels.
What must the nations of the world think of us when they shall
be informed that we have appointed an assembly, and invested it
with the sole and exclusive power of peace and war and the man
agement of all national concerns, and, during the course of almost
a whole year, it has not been capable, except for a few days, for
want of a sufficient number of members, to attend to those mat
ters? Since the first Monday in November last to this time there
has been a representation of nine States only thirty days, and ten
•Samuel Huntington, Governor of Connecticut.
2 Either in the early part of June, or in August, 1787, as reference is made
to the Constitutional Convention, sitting in Philadelphia. St. Clair had
been chosen President of Congress at the beginning of the session, in Feb
ruary.
604 The St. Clair Papers.
States only three days, and as the representation of most of the
States has consisted of only two persons, no great business could be
done without the unanimous consent of every individual member.
We are now, sir, reduced to six, although matters of the highest
importance are pressing for a decision, and can not be long delayed,
-without compromising the dignity of the Government and exposing
the peace and safety of several of the States. Besides, sir, the
National Convention, which the people look up to for much good,
will soon rise, and it appears to be of great consequence that, when
their report comes under the consideration of Congress, it should be
a full Congress, and the important business which will be laid be
fore them meet with no unnecessary delay.
The secretary wrote, not long ago, to the unrepresented States,
but no effect has yet appeared to follow from it. I must, therefore,
again repeat the request, and in the most pressing terms, that your
Excellency would use every means in your power to hasten forward
the delegates of your State.1
General William Irvine to General Richard Butler.
New Yore, July 19, 1787.
Dear Sir : —The President 2 and myself arrived here last Tuesday
morning, in time to take our seats the same day, and make up, at
the same time, nine States. The inclosed Ordinance 3 had passed
two days before. Who the officers of that government will be I
have not heard nor inquired.
I fear nine States will not be held up long, as some talk of going away soon ; whether they will be replaced soon is uncertain. l
The bargain or sale, as you will see by the inclosed sketch, is
1This letter affords h pertinent illustration of the weakness and inefficiency
of the old Confederation, when the States possessed the chief power, and
wero either indifferent to or neglected the appeals made by the Continental
authority for means to carry on the affairs of government. Similar letters
were addressed to the Governors of Georgia, Maryland, Khode Island,
and New Hampshire, which were unrepresented.
1 President St. Clair.
3 The Ordinance for government of North-west Territory.
4 It was difficult to keep a representation from the States under the Confederation.
See the urgent appeal of St. Clair to Governor Huntington,
ante
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 605
nearly completed for that fine tract of country.1 For my own part,
I have no objection to that mode of sale, because I think it most
advantageous for the United States, as it will sink the national debt
without any additional expense for surveying, etc., provided they
pay for all that is secured to them—and that they are confined a,t
once to certain bounds—Congress at liberty to do what they please
with all the rest at any time. I confess to you I am opposed to a
pre-emption to any company or set of men, I think, on sound prin
ciples ; and I hope to prevent this passing with that tail, however
beneficial the body might be without. I have no idea, in making a
sale, to bribe a person to get him to take my commodity with another
article of equal or more value.
Your dispatches have been read and committed, and I suppose
will soon be taken up ; but in the meantime the Dominion, accord
ing to custom, are pressing partial measures for the purpose of defeuding
" Cane-tucke," as they say. I wish for general arrange
ments at once. At present I can not properly say more. You
will soon hear what is doing.
General Gates to President St. Clair.
Traveler's Rest, Berkeley County, Virginia,
Augiai31, 1787.
Sir :—I had the honor to receive your Excellency's letter of the
9th inst., with the elegant medal in gold, which the most honor
able the Congress, in their names, and in behalf of the inhabitants
of the thirteen United States, were pleased to direct the Board of
Warto have struck and presented to me. Nothing could add to this
distinguished mark of the favor and approbation of Congress but
my receiving it in so polite a manner from the hands of your Excel
lency ; from you, sir, whom, in the course of thirty years, I have so
often had the honor to accompany on a vast variety of military service.
Permit me, likewise, to declare the satisfaction I feel in seeing your
Excellency's merits crowned by the high station you now fill with
such acknowledged ability.
That the prosperity, honor, and happiness of the United State:;
may last to the end of time, and that your Excellency may continue
to enjoy the best blessings fortune can bestow, is my constant, ardent
wish.
1 This refers to the negotiations between Dr. Cutler and Congress for a sale
of public lands in the Territory.
606 The St. Clair Papers.
The United States ik Congress Assembled to Abthur St.
Clair, Esq.
We, reposing special trust and confidence in your integrity,
prudence, and ability, have constituted and appointed, and by
these presents do constitute and appoint you, the said Arthur St.
Clair, Governor in and over the territory of the United States of
America North-west of the river Ohio ; and Commander-in-Chief of
the militia therein ; to order, rule, and govern the same, conform
ably to the Ordinance of the 13th July, 1787, entitled "An Ordi
nance for the Government of the Territory of the United States
North-west of the river Ohio," which is hereto affixed ; and we do
hereby give and grant to you, the said Arthur St. Clair, all the
powers, authorities, and prerogatives assigned to the governor of the
said territory in and by the said Ordinance. And we do strictly en
join all persons to pay due obedience to this our commission. This
commission to take effect from the 1st day of February, 1788, and
to continue in force for the term of three years thereafter, unless
sooner revoked by Congress.
President Benjamin Franklin to Arthur St. Clatr and
other Delegates in Congress.1
In Council, Philadelphia, September 22, 1787.
Gentlemen:—Inclosed2 is a letter to General Clinton, which we
1This correspondence refers to conflicts growing out of the claims of citi
zens of Connecticut to lunds in the Wyoming country, in what is Luzerne
county. Grants of lands were originally obtained by citizens of Connecti
cut of the Indians, lying on the rivers Susquehanna and Delaware, within
the boundaries of Pennsylvania, and land companies formed bearing the
names of those rivers. Settlements and improvements were made, and theState
of Connecticut exercised jurisdiction over them for some years, and during
the Revolutionary War. A dispute arose between the two States as to juris
diction, and the matter finally came before Congress. The decision was in
favor of Pennsylvania. A large number of the citizens of Wyoming, the
chief of which were two men named John Franklin and John Jenkins, re
fused to recognize what was styled the Trenton decree, and during the years
1786 and 1787, a. condition of affairs bordering on anarchy prevailed in that
section. The Susquehanna Land Company prevailed on Colonel Ethan Allen,
of Vermont, to visit that country, and that eccentric officer, with John Frank
lin, attempted to organize the citizens in opposition to the government
of Pennsylvania, and declare that section an independent State. The
1 See note 1 next page.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 607
send unsealed for your perusal, with the several papers of intelli
gence that accompany it. The Council have thought oi sending a
few resolute men, authorized to apprehend aud bring off Franklin
scheme failed and Allen returned homo. Franklm, however, continued his
violent opposition, and, at the head of a mob, seized Colonel Timothy Pick
ering, chairman of the board of commissioners appointed to hear and report
on the claims of the Connecticut settlers, carried him away, and subjected
him to insult. An armed force was finally sent by Doctor Benjamin Frank
lin. President of Pennsylvania, to seize Franklin and other disturbers of the
peace, as set forth in the correspondence above. The mob caught the spirit
of the Shay's rebellion of Massachusetts. John Franklin was apprehended
and imprisoned for a long time, which led to correspondence between the
executives of the States of Connecticut and Pennsylvania. All the difficul
ties were happily arranged with the aid of Congress—the latter setting
apart a bi dy of land on Lake Erie, west of New York, for the use of such
Connecticut settlers as chose to move thither and avail themselves of free
lands. •The letter to Governor Clinton, which was inclosed, was as follows"In
Council, September 22, 1787.
"Sir:—Your Excellency will see by the papers and letters of intelligence,
which I have the honor of communicating to you, that thero are a number
of'disorderly people collecting near the line that divides our two States, who
are impatient of regular government, and seize upon and presume to dispose
of lands contrary to and in defiance of the laws. It has appeared to mo by
other evidence, that their numbers are daily increasing by vagabonds from
all quarters, and that they expect reinforcements from Shay's late partisans,
and purpose defending their pioceedings by force of arms. Your Excel
lency will be sensible with us of the mischief such a body of banditti may
be capable of occasioning to both our States, if suffered to increase and es
tablish themselves in that country; the vicinity of the boundary line afford
ing them at present an imaginary security, since, if pursued by the authority
of one of the States, they can easily step over into the others. Your Excel
lency's readiness manifested on other occasions to aid the operations of gen
eral justice, even in neighboring governments, leaves no room to doubt of
your concurring with us in the measures that may be necessary to defeat the
projects of those people, some of whose leaders are said to be inhabitants of
your State; for the concerting such measures, the council of this govern
ment unanimously and earnestly request your Excellency would be pleased
to permit our delegates in Congress to have a conference with you.
"I have the honor to be, etc.,
"B. Franelin, President."
"In Council, September 26, 1787.
"Sir;—You are to take what number of militia you think necessary and
proceed with the greatest dispatch to Wilksbarre, in the county of Luzerne.
When thero, if you think it necessary, consult Colonel Pickering on the best
method you can take to apprehend John Franklin, John Jenkins, Zerah
608 The St. Clair Papers.
and Jenkins ; but if they should be on the York side of the line,
it might be impracticable without the concurrence of that govern
ment. You will see that we have requested the Governor to have
a conference with you on the subject, in which, if it take place, we
desire you would not only discuss what may be proper for the se
curing the ringleaders of the sedition, but concert some general
measures for the two States to take, that it may be effectually and
totally suppressed, and that you would report to us the result of '
your conference as soon as may be.
P. S. —You will see the propriety and necessity of keeping the
proceedings secret, as well as the names of the informers, and you
will return the inclosed papers.
Arthur St. Clair to Benjamin Franklin.
New Yore, September 28, 1787.
Sir :—In pursuance of your Excellency's letter in Council of the
22d instant, the delegates of the State had, yesterday, a conference
with Governor Clinton upon the subject of the intelligence con
tained in the papers inclosed to him.
Governor Clinton seems perfectly well disposed to concur in any
general measure that may tend to preserve the peace of the two
States; but he apprehends no danger from most of the persons
mentioned in those papers ; on the contrary, he seems to think they
are disposed to become peaceable and orderly citizens of the State
of New York, particularly Ar. Moodrey (?), in whom he appeared
to have a confidence. As General Irvine and Mr. Bingham are
both going to Philadelphia, I beg leave to refer your Excellency to
them for more particular information.
As to Franklin and Jenkins, the delegates are of opinion that no
more proper method can be pursued than that suggested in your
Excellency's letter—of sending a few resolute men to take them off;
and should they be on the York side of the line, or take refuge
within that State, the apprehending them will give no offense to the
Government. On the contrary, the Governor is ready to concur
Beach, and John McKinstry. Should you take all or any of these men
prisoners, you are to bring them to Philadelphia. If you take Franklin at
Wilkesbarre, do not proceed any further, or run the risk of losing him by
endeavoring to apprehend the others. Council have the utmost reliance on
your secresy and your prudence in conducting this affair. If opposed by
force, you arc to use force and execute the warrant at all events.
B. Fbanelin, President. "To Colonel John Craig.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc. 609
with the measure, and to that end has proposed that the warrant
that may be thought proper to issue against those men be sent here,
when he will get it hacked by the Chief Justice, and aecomjiany it,
so Imcked with his own warrant, under the privy seal, commanding
the inhabitants (for they have no magistrate) of that district to be
aiding and assisting in apprehending them. Should Council then
adopt the measure, if you will please to inclose the warrant to me,
no time shall he lost in presenting it to Governor Clinton, and re
turning in to your Excellency.
Paul Jones to President St. Clair.
New York, November 6, 1787.
Dear General:—Having in view the attainment of a contract in
France for supplying the marine with masts, building timber and
naval stores from this country, and having reason to hope that my
friends, Mr. Robert Morris and Colonel Wadsworth, will connect
themselves with me in the contract if I can obtain it, I accept, with
great pleasure and thaukfulness, your kind offer to write to General
Washington and endeavor to obtain from him a letter to the Marquis
de Lafayette in favor of my project. Such a letter would insure
the exertions of the Marquis, and might be particularly useful to
me if any opening should offer within the military line, or otherwise,
while I remain in Eurojie. It may be forwarded (under cover to
me) to the Secretary for Foreign Affairs here, who will send it to its
destination. Permit me to otter you my thanks for the many marks
I have received of your kind regard, and for the flattering honor
you do me by accepting my bust, which will be sent to you as soon
as I arrive in Paris. I should be happy to hear from you ; and I
pray you to he assured that no man has more respect for your
character, talents and greatness of mind than, dear General, your
most obedient and most humble servant.
End of Vol. I.

PUBLICATIONS
OF ROBERT CLARKE & CO,
CINCINNATI, O.
HISTORICAL AND MISCELLANEOUS.
Alzog (John D. D.) A Manual of Uni
versal Church History. Translated by
Rev. T. J. Pabisch and Rev. T. S. Byrne.
3 vols. 8vo. 15 00 Anderson (E. L.) Six Weeks in Norway
18mo. 1 i"mi
Andre (Major). The Cow Chase; an Heroick
Poem. 8vo. Paper. 75
Antrim (J.) The History of Champaign
and I.ogan Counties. Ohio, from their First Settlement. 12mo. 1 ■>t)
Bai.lard (Julia P.) Insect Lives; or, Born
in Prison. Illustrated. Sq. 12mo. 1 00
Bell (Thomas J.) History of the Cincin nati Water Works. Plates. 8vo. 75
Benxer (S. ) Prophecies of Future Ups and
Downs in Prices: What Years to Make
Monev in Pig Iron. Hogs. Corn, and Pro
visions. 3d ed. 24mo. 1884. I 00
Biule in tee Public Schools. Records. Ar
guments, etc., in the Case of Minor vs.
Board of Education or Cincinnati. 8vo.
2 00
Arguments in Favor of the Use of the
Bible. Separate. Paper, 50
Arguments Against the Use of the Bible.
Separate. Paper, 50
Bibliotheca Americana. 1883. Being a
priced Catalogue of a large Collection
(nearly 7.0-'0 items) of Books and Pam
phlets relating to America. 8vo. 312
pages. Paper, 50c; ('loth, 100
Biddle (Horace P.) Elements of Knowl
edge. 12mo. 1 00
Biddle (Horace P.) Prose Miscellanies.
12mo. 1 00
Bouquet (II.) The Expedition of, against
the Ohio Indians in 1704, etc. With
Preface by Francis Parkfnan, Jr. 8vo.
$3.00. Large paper, 6 00 Boyland (G. II., M.D.) Six Months Under
the Red Cross with the French Army in
the Franco-Prussian War. ]2mo. 1 50
Bruxxer (A. A.) Elementary and Pro
nouncing French Reader. 18mo. 60
Bruxxer (A. A.) The Gender of French
Verbs Simplified. 18mo. 25
Bcrt (Rev. N. C , D.D.) The Far East; or
Letters from Egypt, Palestine, etc. 12mo
1 75
Bctterfiei.d (C. W.) The WashingtonCrawford
Letters; being the Correspondonce
between George Washington and
William Crawford, concerning Western
Lands. 8vo. 1 00
Butterfield (C. W.) The Discovery of the
Northwest in 1034, by John Nicolet, with
a Sketch of his Life. 12mo. 1 U0
Clare (Col. George Rogers). Sketches of
his Campaign in the Illinois in 1778-9.
With an Introduction by Hon. Henry
Pirtle, and an Appendix. 8vo. $2 00
Large paper, 4 00
Coffin (Levi.) The Reminiscences of Levi
Coffin, the Reputed President of the Un
derground Railroad. A Brief History of
the Labors of a Lifetime in behalf of the
Slave. With Stories of Fugitive Slaves,
etc., etc. 12mo. 2 00
Collier (Peter). Sorghum : its Culture and
Manufacture Economically Considered,
and as a Source of Sugar, Syrup and Fod
der. Illustrated. 8vo. 3 00
CoXSTITOTlON OF THE UNITED STATES, Etc.
The" Declaration of Independence, July
4, 1776; the Articles of Confederation,
July 9, 1778; the Constitution of the
United States, September 17, 1787; the
Fifteen Amendment to the Constitution,
and Index; Washington's Farewell Ad
dress, September 7, 1 796. 8vo. Paper. 25
Cornwell (II. G.) Consultation Chart of
the Eye-Symptoms and Eye-Complica
tions of General Disease. 14 x 20 inches.
Mounted on Roller. 50
Craig (N.B.) The Olden Time. A Monthly
Publication, devoted to the Preservation
of Documents of Early History, etc. Originally Published at Pittsburg, in
1846-47. 2 vols. 8vo. 10 00
Draee (D.) Pioneer Life in Kentucky.
Edited, with Notes and a Biographical
Sketch by his Son, Hon. Chas. D. Drake
8vo. $3 00. Large paper. Odd
DuBreuil ( A.) Vineyard Culture Improved
and Cheapened. Edited by Dr. J. A. War der. 12mo. 2 IK)
Ellard (Virginia G.) Grandma's Christ
mas Day. Illus. Sq. 12mo. 1 00
2 PUBLICATIONS OP ROBERT CLARKE & CO.
Everts (Orpheus). What Shall We Do
With the Drunkard? A Rational View
of the Use of Brain Stimulants. 8vo.
Paper. 50 Family Expense Booe. A Printed Account
Book, with Appropriate Columns and
Headings, for keeping a Complete Record
of Family Expenses. 12mo. 50
Finley (I. J.) and Putnam (R.) Pioneer
Record and Reminiscences of the Early
Settlers and Settlement of Ross County,
Ohio. 8vo. 2 50
Fletcher (Wm. B., M.D.) Cholera: its
Characteristies, Historv, Treatment, etc.
8vo. Paper. 1 00
Force (M. F.) Essays: Pre-llistoric Man—
Darwinism and Deity—The Mound Build
ers. 8vo. Paper.
Force (M. F.) Some Early Notices of the
Indians of Ohio. To What Kace did the
Mound Builders Belong? 8vo. Paper. 50
Freeman (Ellen). Manual of the French
Verb, to accompany every French Course.
16mo. Paper. 25
Gallagher (Wm. D.) Miami Woods, A
(iolden Wedding, and other Poems.
12mo. 2 00 Grimee (F.) Considerations on the Nature
and Tendency of Free Institutions.
8vo. 2 50 (juiswoLi) (W.) Kansas: Her Resources and
Developments; or, the Kansas Pilot.
8vo. Paper. 50
Hall (.lames). Legends of the West.
Sketches illustrative of the Habits, Oc
cupations, Privations, Adventures, and
Sports of the Pioneers of the West
12mo. 2 00 Hall (James). Romance of Western His
tory; or, Sketches of History, Life, and
Manners in the West. 12mo. 2 00
Hanover (M. D.) A Practical Treatise on
the Law of Horses, embracing the Law of Bargain, Sale, and Warranty of Horses
and other Live Stock; the Rule as to Unsoundness and Vice, and the Respon
sibility of the Proprietors of Livery, Auc
tion, and Sale Stables, Inn-keepers, Vet
erinary Surgeons, and Farriers, Carriers,
etc. 8vo. 4 00
Hart (J. M.) A Syllabus of Anglo-Saxon
Literature. 8vo. Paper. 50
Hassauree (F.) The Secret of the Andes
A Romance. 12mo. 1 50 The Same, in German. 8vo. Paper, 50c;
cloth. 1 00 Hassauree (F.) Four Years Among Spanish
Americans. Third Edition. l2mo. 1 ;i0
Hatch (Col. W. S.) A Chapter in the His
tory of the War of 1812, in the North
west, embracing the Surrender of the
Northwestern Army and Fort, at Detroit,
August 16, 1813, etc. 18mo. 125
Hayes (Rutherford B.) The Life, Public
Services, and Select Speeches of. Edited
bv J. Q. Howard. l2mo. Paper. 75c;
Cloth. 1 25
Hazex (Gen W. B.) Our Barren Lands.
The Interior of the United States, West
of the One-Hundredth Meridian, and
East of the Sierra Nevada. 8vo. Pa
per. 50
Henshai.l (Dr. James A.) Book of the
Black Bass; comprising its complete Sci
entific and Life History, together with a
Practical Treatise on Angling and Fly
Fishing, and a full description of Tools,
Tackle, and Implements. Hlustrated.
12mo. 3 00
Horton (S. Dana). Silver and Gold, and
their Relation to the Problem of Resump
tion. 8vo. 1 50
Horton (S. Dana). The Monetary Situa
tion. 8vo. Paper. 50
Hough ( Franklin B.) Elements of Forestry.
Designed to afford Information concern
ing the Planting and Care of Forest Trees
for Ornament and Profit; and giving
Suggestions upon the Creation and Care
of Woodlands, with the view of securing
the greatest benefit for the longest time.
Particularly adapted to the wants and
conditions of the United States. Hlus
trated. l2mo. 2 00
Houseeeeping in the Blue Grass. A New
and Practical Cook Book. By Ladies of
the Presbyterian Church, Paris, Ky.
ll'mo. 13th thousand. 1 50
Hovey (Horace C.) Celebrated American
Caverns, especially Mammoth, Wyandot,
and Luray; together with Historical, Sci
entific, and Descriptive Notices of Caves
and Grottoes in Other Lands. Maps and
Illustrations. Xvo. 2 00
Howe (II.) Historical Collections of Ohio.
Containing a Collection of the most In
teresting Facts, Traditions, Biographical
Sketches, Anecdotes, etc., relating to its
Local and General History. 8vo. 6 0<)
Hunt (W. E.) Historical Collections of
Coshocton County, Ohio. 8vo. 3 00
Huston (R. G.) Journey in Honduras, and
Jottings by the Way. Inter-Oceanic
Railway. 8vo. Paper. 50
Jaceson (John D., M.D.) The Black Arts
in Medicine, with an Anniversary Ad
dress. Edited by Dr. L. S. McMurtrv.
J2mo. I 00 Jasfer (T.) The Birds of North America.
Colored Plates, drawn from Nature, with
Descriptive and Scientific Letterpress.
CINCINNATI, OHIO.
in 40 parts, $1.00 each ; or, 2 vols. Royal '
4to. Half morocco, $"i0 00 ; full mo
rocco, 60 00
• The Same. Popular portion only with
the Colored Plates. ] vol. Half mo
rocco, $36.50; full morocco, 40 00
Jordan (D. M.) Rosemary Leaves. A Col
lection of Poems. In no. 1 50
Keller (M. J.) Elementary Perspective,
explained and applied to Familiar Ob
jects. Illustrated. 12mo. 1 00
King (John). A Commentary on the Law
and True Construction of the Federal
Constitution. 8vo. 2 50
Klippaut (J. H.) The Principles and
Practice of Land Drainage. Illustrated.
12mo. 1 75
Law (J.) Colonial History of Vincennes,
Indiana, under the French, British, and
American Governments. 12mo. 1 00
Lloyd (J. I".) The Chemistry of Medicines.
Illus. 12mo. Cloth, $2 75; Sheep, 3 25
Lloyd (J. IT.) Pharmaceutical Prepara
tions; Elixirs, their History, Formula?,
and Methods of Preparation. 12mo. I 25
Longley (Elias). Eclectic Manual of
Phonography. A CompleteGuide to the
Acquisition of Pitman's Phonetic Short hand, with or without a Master. Anew
and carefully revised edition. 12mo.
Stiff paper binding, 65c; Cloth, 75
Longley (Elias). The Reporter's Guide.
Designed for Students in any Style of
Phonography ; in which are formulated
for the first time in any work of the kind
Rules for the Contraction of Words,
Principles of Phrasing, and Methods of
Abbreviation. Abundantly illustrated.
12mo. 2 00
Longley (Elias). American Phonographic
Dictionary, exhibiting the correct and actual Shorthand Forms for all t lie use
ful Words in the English Language,
about 50,000 in number, and. in addition,
many Foreign Terms; al-o, for 2,000
Geographical Names, and as many Fam
ily, Personal, and Noted Fictitious
Names. 12mo. 2 50
Loxgley (Elias). Every Reporter's Own
Shorthand Dictionary. The same as the
above, but printed on writing paper,
leaving out the Shorthand Forms and
giving blank lines opposite each word, for the purpose of enabling writers of i
nny System of Shorthand to put upon rec
ord, for convenient reference, the peculiar
word-forms they employ. 12mo 2 50
Longley (Elias). Compend of Phonogra
phy, presenting a Table of all Alphabeti
cal Combinations, Hooks, Circles, Loops,
etc., atone view ; also, Complete Lists of
Word-signs and Contracted Word-forms,
with Rules for Contracting Words for the
L'se of Writers of all Styles of Phonog
raphy. 12mo. Paper. 25
Loxgley (Elias). The Phonetic Reader
and Writer, containing Heading Exer
cises, with Translations on opposite pages,
which form Writing Exercises. 12mo. 25
Loxgley (Elias). Phonographic Chart. 2S
x 42 inches. 50
McBripe (J.) Pioneer Biography ; Sketches
of the. Lives of some of the Early Settlers
of Butler County, Ohio. 2 vols. 8vo.
$6 50. Large paper. Imp. 8vo. 13 00
McLaugtilin (M. Louise). China Painting.
A Practical Manual for the Use of Ama
teurs in the Decoration of Hard Porce
lain. Sq. 12mo. Boards. 75
McLatohi-in (M. Louise). Pottery Decora
tion : being a Practical Manual of Undiiglai/.e
Painting. Sq. l2mo. Boards. I i 0
McLai'ohmx (M. Louise). Suggestions for
China Painters. Sq. l2mo. Boards. 1 00
MacLeax (J. P.) The Mound Builders, and
an Investigation into tlio Archaeology of
Butler County, Ohio. Illus. 12mo. 150
MacLeax (J. T.) A Manual of the Anti
quity of Man. Illustrated. 12mo. 1 00
MacLean (.1 F.) Mastodon, Mammoth, and
Man. Illustrated. I'Jmo. 60
MacLeax (J. P.) The Worship of the Re
ciprocal Principles of Nature among the
Ancient Hebrews. l.Smo. Paper. 25
Mansfield (E. D ) Personal Memories, So
cial, Political, and Literarv. 1803-4 !.
12mo. 2 00
Manypexxy (O. W.) Our Indian Wards.
A History and Discussion of the Indian
Question. 8vo. 3 00
May (Col. J.) Journal and Letters of, rela
tive to Two Journeys to the Ohio Country,
1788 and 1770. 8vo. 2 00
Mettexheimer (II. J.) Safety Book-keep
ing. Being a Complete Exposition of
Book-keeper's Frauds—how Committed,
how discovered, how prevented; with other Suggestions of Value to Merchants
and Book-keepers in the Management of
Accounts. IKmo. Cloth. 1 00
Minor (T. C, M.D.) Child-bed Fever. Ery
sipelas and Puerperal Fever, with a Short
Account of both Diseases. 8vo. 2 00
Minor (T. C, M.D.) Scarlatina Statisties
of the United States. 8vo. Paper. 50
PUBLICATIONS OF ROBERT CLARKE & CO.
Morgan (^ppleton). The Shakspearean
Myth ; or, William Shakespeare and Cir
cumstantial Evidence. 12mo. 2 00
Morgan (Appleton). Some Shakespearean
Commentators. 12mo. Paper. 75
Name and Address Booe. A Blank Book,
with Printed Headings and Alphabetical
Marginal Index, for Recording the Names
and Addresses of Professional, Commer
cial, and Family Correspondents. 8vo. 1 00
Nash (Simeon). Crime and the Family.
12mo. 1 25
Nerincex (Rev. Charles). Life of, with
Early Catholic Missions in Kentucky;
the Society of Jesus; the Sisterhood of Loretto,
etc. By Kev. C. P. Maes. 8vo. 2 50
Nichols (G. W.) The Cincinnati Organ;
with a Brief Description of the Cincin
nati Music Hall. P-'mo. Paper. 25
Ohio Valley Historical Miscei.lantes. _ I.
Memorandums of a Tour made by Josiah
Espy, in the States of Ohio, and Ken
tucky, and Indian Territory, in 1805. II.
Two Western Campaigns in the War of
1812-13: 1. Expedition of Capt. II. Brush,
with Supplies for General Hull. 2. Ex
pedition of Gov. Meigs, for the relief ol
Fort Meigs. By Samuel Williams. HI.
The Leatherwood God : an account of the
Appearance and Pretensions of J. C. Dylks in Eastern Ohio, in ]8-_i8. By P., II.
Tanevhill. 1 vol. 8vo. $2 50. Large
paper, ° 00
Once a Year; ov, The Doctor's Puzzle. By
E. B. S. 16mo. 1 00
Osborn (II. S.) Ancient Egypt in the Light of Modern Discoveries. Illus
trated. 12mo. 1 25
Thisterer (Captain Frederick). The Na
tional Guardsman : on Guard and Kin
dred Duties. 24mo. Leather. 75
Physician's Foceet Case Record Prescrip
tion Booe. 35
Physician's General Ledger. Half Rus
sia. 4 00
Piatt (John J.) Penciled Fly-Leaves. A
Book of Essays in Town and Country.
Sq. 16mo. 1 00
Poole (W. F.) Anti-Slavery Opinions be
fore 1800. An Essay. 8vo. Paper, 75c;
Cloth, 1 25
Prentice (Ceo. D.) Poems of, collected
and edited, with Biographical Sketch, by
John J. Piatt. 12mo. 2 00
Qiice (R. II.) Essays on Educational Re
formers. Schools of the Jesuits: Ascham,
Montaigne, Ratich, Milton; Comenins;
Locke ; Rousseau's Emile ; Basidow and
the Philanthropic etc. 12mo. 1 50
Rance (G. W.) History of Lexington, Ken
tucky. Its Early Annals and Recent
Progress, etc. 8vo. 4 I'O
Reemei.iu (C.) The Wine-Maker's Manual.
A Plain, Practical Guide to all the Oper
ations for the Manufacture of Still and
Sparkling Wines. 12mo. 1 25
Reemei.in (C.) A Treatise on Polities as a
Science. 8vo. 1 50
Reemei.in (C.) A Critical Review of Amer
ican Polities. 8vo. 3 50
Reemeliv (C.) Historical Sketch of Green
Township, Hamilton County, Ohio. 8vo.
Paper. 1 25 Rives (E. M. D.) A Chart of the Physio
logical Arrangement of Cranial Nerves.
Printed in large type, on a sheet 28x15
inches. Folded, in cloth case. 50
Robert (Karl). Charcoal Drawing with
out a Master. A Complete Treatise in
Landscape Drawing in Charcoal, with Les
sons and Studies alter Allonge. Trans
lated by E. H. Appleton. Hlustrated.
8vo. 1 00 Roy (George). Generalship; or, How 1
Managed my Husband. A tale. ISmo.
Paper, 50c. ; Cloth. 1 00
Roy (George). The Art of Pleasing. A
Lecture. 12mo. Paper. 25
Roy (George). The Old, Old Story. A Lec
ture. 12mo. Paper. 2o
Russell (A. P.) Thomas Corwin. A
Sketch. l6mo. 1 00
Russell (Wm.) Scientific. Horseshoeing
for the Different Diseases of the Feet. 1 1-
lustrated. 8vo. 1 00
Sattler (Eric E.) The History of Tuber
culosis from the time of Sylvins to the
Present Day. Translated, in part, with ad ditions, from the German of Dr. Arnold
Spina, First Assistant in the Laboratory
of Professor Strieker, of Vienna: includ
ing also Dr. Robert Koch's Experiments, and the more recent Investigations of
Dr. Spina on the. Subject. 12mo. 1 25
Sayi.er (J. A.) American Form Book. A
Collection of Legal and Business Forms,
embracing Deeds, Mortgages, Leases,
Bonds, Wills, Contracts, Bills, of Ex
change, Promissory Notes, Checks, Bill*,
of Sale, Receipts.and other Legal Instru
ments, prepared in accordance with the
Laws of the several States; with Instruc tions for drawing and executing the
same. For Professional and Business
Men. 8vo. 2 00 Sheets (Mary R.) My Three Angels : Faith.
Hope, and Love. With full-page illustra
tion, by E. D. Grafton. 4to. Cloth.
Gilt. 5 00
CINCINNATI, OHIO.
Seinner (J. R.) Tho Sourco of Measures.
A Key to tlio Hebrew-Egyptian Mystery
in the Source of Measures, etc. 8vo. 5 00
Smith (Col. James). A Reprint of an Ac
count of the Remarkable Occurrences in
his Life anil Travels, during his Captivity
with the Indians in the years 1755, '50,
'57, '58, and '59, etc. 8vo. $2 50. Large
paper. 5 00
Stanton (H.) Jacob Brown and other
Poems. 12mo. 1 60
St. Clair Papers. A Collection of the Cor
respondence and other papers of General
Arthur St. Clair, Governor of the North
west Territory. Edited, with a Sketch of
his Life and Public Services, by William
Henry Smith. 2 vols. 8vo. 6 00
Straucn (A.) Spring Grove Cemetery, Cin
cinnati: its History and Improvements,
with Observations on Ancient and Mod
ern Places of Sepulture. The text beau
tifully printed with ornamental, colored
borders, and photographic illustrations
4to. Cloth. Gilt. 15 00
An 8vo edition, without border and illus
trations. 2 00
Studer(J. II.) Columbus, Ohio: its History,
Resources, and Progress, from its Settle ment to the Present Time. 12mo. • 2 00
Taneyhill (R. H.) The Leatherwood God :
an account of tho Appearance and Pre
tensions of Joseph (.'. Dvlks in Eastern
Ohio, in 1826. 12mo. Paper. 30
Tf.n Brooe (A.) American State Universi
ties. Their Origin ami Progress. A His
tory of the Congressional University Land
Grants. A particular account of the Hise
and Development of the University of
Michigan, and Hints toward the future
of the American University Svstem.
8vo. " 2 00
Tildes (Louise W.) Karl and Gretchen's Christmas. Illustrated. Square 12mo. 7.r)
Tilden (Louise W.) Poem, Hymn, and
Mission Band E.vercises. Written and ar
ranged for the use of Foreign Missionary
Societies and Mission Bands. Square
12mo. Paper. 25
Tkeet (Capt. Wm.) Journal of, from Logstown
to Piekawillany, in 17."i2. Edited
by A. T. Goodman. 8vo. 2 50
Tripler (C. S., M. D ) and Bi.aceman (G. C.,
M. D.) Handbook for the Military Sur
geon. 12mo. 1 00
Tyler Davidson Fountain. History and
Description of the Tyler Davidson Fount
ain, Donated to the City of Cincinnati,
by Henry Probasco. I8mo. Paper. 25
Vaoo (A. L.) Instructions in the Art of
Modeling inClav. With an Appendix on
Modeling in Foliage, etc., lor Pottery and
Architectural Decorations, by Benn Pit
man, of Cincinnati School of Design. Il
lustrated. Square 12mo. 1 00
Van Horne (T. B.) The History of the Ar
my ot the Cumberland ; its Organization,
Campaigns, and Battles. IAlirary Edition.
2 vols. With Atlas of 22 maps, compiled
by Edward Roger. 8vo. Cloth, $S 0.i;
Sheep, $10 00; Half Morocco, $12 00.
Popular Edition. Containing the »me
Text as the Library Edition, but only one
map. 2 vols. 8vo. Cloth. 5 00
Vesabi.e (W. II.) June on tho Miami, and
other Poems, Second edition, I8mo. 1 50
Voorhees(D. W.} Speeches of, embracing
his most prominent Forensic, Political,
Occasional, and Literary Addresses. Com
piled by his son, C. S. Voorhees, with a
Biographical Sketch and Portrait. 8vo.
5 00
Waleer (C. M.) History of Athens Coun
ty, Ohio, and incidentally of the Ohio
Land Company, and the First Settlement
of the State at Marietta, etc. 8vo. $i 00
Large Paper. 2 vols. $12 00. Popular
Edition. 4 00
Walton (G. E.) Hygiene and Education
of Infants; or, How to take care of Ba
bies. 24mo. Paper. 25
Ward (Durbin). American Coinage and
Currency. An Essay read before the So cial Science Congress, at Cincinnati, May
22, 1 878. 8vo. Paper. 10
Wfbr(F.) and Johnston (M. C.) An Im
proved Tally-Book for the use of Lum
ber Dealers. 18mo. 50
Wiuttaeer(J. T., M. D.) Physiology; Pre
liminary Lectures. Illustrated. 12mo.
1 7o
Williams (A. D.. M. D.) Diseases of the
Ear. including Xecessary Anatomy of the
Organ. 8vo. 3 50
YorNO (A.) History of Wayne County, In
diana, irom its First Settlement to the
Present Time. 8vo. 2 00
PUBLICATIONS OV ROBERT CLARKK & CO.
LAW TREATISES AND REPORTS.
Adeinron (F.) Township anil Town Officer's
Guide for the State of Indiana. I2mo
Net. Cloth, $2 0.); Sheep. 2 50
Barton (C.) History of n Suit in Equity.
Revised and enlarged. 8vo. 2 50
Bates (C.) Ohio Pleadings. Parties, and Forms under the Code. 2 vols. Svo
Net. 12 01)
Bible in the Public Schools. Arguments
in favor and against, with Decision of
the Cincinnati Superior Court. 8vo.
Cloth. 2 00
The arguments in faver of, and
against. Separate. Paper. Each, 50
Bi.oom (S. S ) Popular Edition of the Laws
of Ohio, in Force June, 1882. Net. Cloth,
$3 00; Sheep, 4 00
Bond (L. II.) Reports of Cases Decided in
the Circuit and District Courts of the
United States for the Southern District
of Ohio. 2 vols. 8vo. 14 00
Burns (H.) An Index or Abbreviated Di
gest of the Supreme Court Reports of the
State of Indiana, from 1st Blackford to
77th Indiana, inclusive. 8vo. Net. 5 00
Carlton (A. B.) The Law of Homicide;
together with the Celebrated Trial of
Judge E. C. Wilkinson, Dr 15. Ii. Wilkin
son, and J. Murdaugh,for the Murder of
John Rothwell and A. II. Moeks, includ
ing the Indictments, the Evidence, and
Speeches of Hon. S. S. Prentiss, Hon.
Ben. Hardin, E. J. Bullock, Judge John
Rowan, Col. Geo. Robertson, and John
B. Thompson, of Counsel, in full. 8vo.
Net. 2 50
Cincinnati Superior Court Reporter. 2
vols. 8vo. Net. 10 00 See also Handy, Disney.
Constitution of the United States, with
the Fifteen Amendments, Declaration of
Independence, etc. 8vo. Paper. 25
Cox (R.) American Trade Mark Cases. A
Compilation of all reported Trade Mark
cases decided in the United States Courts
prior to 1871. 8vo. 8 00
Curwex (M. E) Manual of Abstracts of
Title to Real Property. I2mo. Cloth.
$1 50; Sheep, 1 75
Davis (E. A.) New Digest of the Decisions
of the Supreme Court of Indiana, to 1875.
2 vols. 8vo. Net. 12 00
Disney's Reports. Cincinnati Superior
Court. 2 vols. 8vo. Net, 10 00
Fisher (S. S ) Reports of Patent Cases de
cided in the Circuit Courts of the United
Slates, 1843-187.". 6 vols. 8vo. Vols.
:: to (i, each. Net. 25 00
Fis-her (W. II.) Reports of Patent Cases
decided in the Courts of the United
States, 1827-1851. 10 10
Fisher (R. A.) Digest of English Patent,
Trade Mark, and Copyright Cases. Ed.
ited by Henry Hooper. 8vo. 4 00
Fortescue (Sir John). Do Laudibus Legum Angliav A Treatise in Commendation
of the Laws of England, fcvo. Cloth.
3 00 Giaique (F.) The Election Laws of the
United States. Being a Compilation of all
the Constitutional Provisions and Laws
of the United States relating to Elections,
the Elective Franchise, to Citizenship,
and to the Naturalization of Aliens. With
Notes of Decisions affecting the same.
8vo. Paper. 75c; Cloth. 1 00
Giauque(F.) Ohio Election Laws. 8vo.
Paper, $1.00; Cloth, 1 50
Giauote (F.) Manual for Road Supervisors
in Ohio. 16mo. Boards. 25
Giauque (F.) Manual for Assignees arid
Insolvent Debtors in Ohio. Net. Cloth.
82 00; Sheep, 2 50
Giavque (F.) Manual for Guardians in Ohio. Net. Cloth, $2 00; Sheep, 2 5'i
Giauque (F.) A complete Manual of the
Road Laws of Ohio in force 18S3, with
Forms and Notes of Decisions. In press.
Giauque (F.) and MK'i.ure (H. B.) Dower
and Curtesy Tables, for ascertaining, on
- the basis of the Carlisle Tables of Mor
tality, the present value of vested and contingent lights of Dower and Curtesy,
and of other Life Estates. 8vo. Net. 5 00
Handt'r Reports. Cincinnati Superior
Court. 2 vols, in 1. 8vo. Net. 5 00
IIanover(M. D.) A Practical Treatise on
tlie Law relating to Horses. Second edi
tion. 8vo. 4 00
Harris (S. F.) Principles of the Criminal
Law. Edited bv Hon. M. F. Force. 8vo.
Net. 4 00
Indiana Laws. Being Acts and Joint Reso
lutions of the General Assembly of the
State of Indiana, passed at the Regular
Session, which was begun and held at
Indianapolis, on Thursday, the fourth
day of January, 18S3, and adjourned
without dav on Monday, the fifth day of
March, 1883. Edited, printed, published,
and circulated under authority of law,
and with the Secretary of State's authen
tication. S. R. Downey, Editor. Svo.
1 00
CINCINNATI, OHIO.
Kenti'cey Repcrts. Reports of cases de
cided in the Court of Appeals of Ken
tucky. 1785-1878. 76 vols, in 61.
Kino (J.) A Commentary on the Law and
True Construction of the Federal Coustition.
8vo. - 50
McDonald (D.) Treatiseon the Law relating
to the Powers and Duties of Justices and
Constables in Indiana. Edited by L. O.
Schroeder. 8vo. Net 6 00
Matthews (Stanley). A Summary of the
Law of Partnership. For use of Busi
ness Men. 12mo. Cloth, $1 2); Sheep,
1 50
McLean (.J.) Reports of Cases decided in
the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Seventh District. 1829-1555. 6
vols. 8vo. Vols. 2, 4, 5, 6. Each, 6 50
Montesquieu (Baron De). The Spirit of
Laws. Translated from the French by
Thomas Nugent. New edition, with Me
moir. 2 vols. 8vo. Cloth. 6 00
Morgan (.1. A.) An English Version of
Legal Maxims, with the Original Forms.
Alphabetically arranged, and an Index
of Subjects. Second edition. 12mo
Cloth. Net. 2 00
Nash (S.) Pleading and Practice under
the Codes of Ohio, New York, Kansas,
and Nebraska. Fourth edition, 2 vols.
8vo. Net. 10 00
Ohio and Ohio State Reports. Reports of
Cases decided in the Supreme Court of
Ohio. 1821-1 880. 55 vols. Net. 137 50
Ohio Statutes Embracing:
Curwen's Statutes at Large, 1833-1860. 4
vols. 8vo. Net. 20 00
Swan & Critohfield's Revised Statutes,
1860. 2 vols. 8vo. Net. 5 00
Savler's Statutes at Large, 1860-1875. 4
vols. 8vo. 20 00
Pece (II. D.) The Law of Municipal Cor
porations in the State of Ohio. Second
edition. 8vo. 5 00
Pece(H. D.) The Township-Officer's Guide
of Ohio. Second edition. Net. Cloth.
?2 00; Sheep, 2 50
Polloce (F.) Principles of Contract at Law
and in Equitv. Edited bv G. II. Wald.
8vo. Net. 6 CO
I; iff (ft. W.) Ouide to Executors and Ad
ministrators in the State of Ohio. Sixth
edition. Edited and enlarged by V. Giauque. 12mo. Cloth, $2 00; Sheep,
2 50
Raff CO. W.J Manual of Pensions, Bounty. and Pay. 1789-LS03. 12mo. 2 00
Raft (ft. W.) War Claimant's Guide. Laws
relating to Pensions, Bounty, etc. War
of 1861-LS65. 8vo. 4 00
Reinhard (ft. L.) The Criminal Law of the
State of Indiana, with Precedents, Forms
for Writs, Ducket Entries, etc. 8vo. 2 50
Saint Germain (C.) The Doctor and Stu
dent; or, Dialogues between a Doctor of
Divinity and a Student in the Laws of
England, containing the grounds of
those Laws. Revised and corrected. 8vo.
Cloth. 3 00
Saunders (T. W.) A Treatise upon the
Law of Negligence. With notes of Amer
ican Cases. 8vo. 2 50
Sayler (J. R.) American Form Book; a
Collection of Legal and Business Forms
for Professional and Business Men. 8vo.
Cloth. Net. 2 00
Stanton (R. II.) A New Digest of the Ken
tucky Decisions ; embracing all Cases
decided by the Appellate Courts, from 17s") to 1877. Second edition. 2 vols.
8vo. Net. 6 00
Stanton (R. II.) A Practical Treatise on the
Law relating to .Justices of the Peace, etc.,
in Kentucky. Third edition. 8vo. 7 50
Stanton (R. II.) Manual for the Use of
Executors, Administrators, Guardians,
etc., in Kentucky. Second edition.
12mo. 1 75
Swan (J. R.) Pleadings and Precedents,
under the Code of Ohio. 8vo. 6 00
Swan (J. R.) Treatise on the Law relating
to the Powers and Duties of Justices ot
the Peace, etc., in the State of Ohio.
Eleventh edition. 8vo. Net. 6 00
Swan (J. R.) and Plumb (P. B.) Treatise
on the Law relating to the Powers and
Duties of .Justices, etc., in Kansas. 8vo.
5 00
Waleer (J. B.) and Bates (C.) A new Di
gest of Ohio Decisions. Second edition.
2 vols. 8vo. Net. 12 00
Vol. 3, 1874-1882. By . Bates.
Net. 5 00
Warren (M.) Criminal Law and Forms.
Third edition. 8vo. 5 00
Wells (J. C.) Treatise on the Separate
Property of Married Women, under the
recent Enabling Acts. Second edition.
8vo. 6 00
Wells (J. C.) A Manual of the Laws reluting
to County Commissioners in
the State of Ohio, with carefully pre
pared Forms, and References to the De
cisions of the Supreme Court. Net. 3 50
8 PUBLICATIONS OF ROBERT CLARKE & CO.
Wild (E. N.') Journal Entries under the
('odes of Civil and Criminal Procedure.
With Notes of Decisions. Second edi
tion. 8vo. 4 00
Wilcon (.T. A.) The General Railroad i
Laws oT the State of Ohio, in force Jan
uary, 1874. 8vo. 5 00
Wilson (M. F.) The New Criminal Code
of Ohio, with Forms and Precedents, Di
gest of Decisions, etc. Second edition. • 8vo. Net. 5 00
Wores (John D.) Indiana Practice, Plead
ings, and Forms. 2 vols. 8vo. Net 1'2 UO
Nash (Simeon). Lawyer's (use Docket,
containing printed Headings, and blank
spaces for names of Parties, Memoranda
of all the Proceedings, with full printed
Instructions, and an Index. Crown size.
Half roan, $.175; Full Sheep. 4 50
Lawyer's Collection Doceet. With conve
nient [tilling, printed Headings, Index,
etc. 4to. Half Russia. 3 30
Attorney's Poceet Doceet. Ruled and
Printed for number of Case, Parties, and
kind of Action, Witnesses, etc., with
room for l."i0 cases. Pocket size. Mo
rocco. 1 00
Changeable Pocret Docret. The Docket
paper is furnished separately, and so ar
ranged that it may be subsequently
bound in one volume. Paper, 5l)c. per
(411 ire.
band. Morocco case, with pocket and
2 00
Notary's Official Register. Being a Rec
ord of Protests and other Official Trans
actions. 4to. 2 quires. Half sheep,
$2 00; 3 quires, half russia. 3 0O
Collection Receipt Booe. The Book of
Collection Receipts, which is bound in
the form of a check book, contains the
stub in which is preserved a record of
the transaction, and a printed receipt,
giving parties, date, interest, indorsers,
credits, etc., which is torn off and sent
to your correspondent. Book of 50 re
ceipts, 40c; 100 receipts, 75c; 200 (two
to a page). 1 25
A Catalogue of Legal Blanks will be sent on
application.
LAWYERS OFFICE DOCKET.
The Lawyer's Office Docket. Embracing the History of each Case, and the Pro
ceedings thereon, together with a Digest of the Principles of Law involved, and Refer
ences to Authorities. With Index and Memoranda. Quarto. 212 pages. Half russia.
Cloth sides. Net. 3 50
THE UNITED STATES COMMISSIONER'S DOCKET.
Docket for Commissioners of the United States Circuit Courts, embracing a Full
Record of the Proceeding in each Case, with Schedule of Costs, and an Index of Cases.
Quarto. Half russia. Net 3 75
ROBERT CLARKE & CO.
JOBBERS OF BOOKS AND STATIONERY.
The attention of Booesellers, Drcggists, Country Merchants, and other Whole
sale Buyers, is invited to our facilities lor supplying, in any quantity, and at the
lowest rates,
STAPLE AND FANCY STATIONERY OF ALL KINDS,
BOOKS IN EVERY DEPARTMENT OF LITERATURE,
our Stock being one of the largest in the country, and selected with particular refer
ence to the wants of the Western and Southern trade. Purchasers ordering from
us, either in person or by letter, can rely upon having their orders fully and CAREfTnj/y
executed at low prices.
Buyers visiting the city are invited to call and examine our stock and prices.
Orders by mail will receive prompt attention, and be supplied at the lowest figures.
Our stock embraces fill and complete liner of all articles in the Book or Stationery
Trade, enabling dealers to make their entire bills at one house, at the lowest rates.

iA
Stanford Univeisity Libiaiies
105 DDM Tb2 572
STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES
STANFORD AUXILIARY LIBRARY
STANFORD, CALIFORNIA 94305-6004
(415) 723-9201
All books may be recalled after 7 days
DATE DUE
28D AUGO^gW
291984
Ul 211984
rary
t*.
his book,
sible, but
